*For an overview of business operations, please see the* [*Ops
Bible*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E6l0-SMJu3GN7ymCCEkxhJn6_kMbUijbKjqfOTme2-A/edit?usp=sharing)*.*

This is a outline of our basic business tools:

## 1Password

<https://1password.com/>

All Dojo4 credentials are kept 1Password. If you do not already have an
account, the Operations Manager will help you get one set up. Please ask
for the master password to get in. You should be able to find anything
you need in 1Password. If you need to change or add any credentials for
Dojo4 or project operations, please be sure to record them in there.
**Again: please be sure to enter ALL new internal AND client credentials
into 1Password and make sure that settings allow for anyone else to see
that info.** This will allow for us all to share the responsibility of
making sure that things re running smoothly, not just the few that have
specific access when things go down. Use judiciously and share only with
other Dojo4 employees. Any misuse of the information in 1Password are
grounds for immediate dismissal and eternal self-recrimination.

Logins for all the following services are (or should be) in 1Password.

## Redmine

<https://redmine.org/>

Redmine is an open-source, flexible project management web application.
Written using Ruby on Rails framework, it is cross-platform and
cross-database.

We use Redmine for:

  - project support
  - flexible issue tracking system
  - client communication
  - time tracking

We've tried a number of different solutions, mostly because Redmine is
unsexy and not widely adopted, however we always come back to it. We
stick with it because it's a flexible, free and customizeable open
sourced solution. We've built custom integrations with some of our other
tools, like Freshbooks and Flowdock. For a detailed description and
how-to-use, please see the section on
[Redmine](./redmine).

  

## Freshbooks

<https://www.freshbooks.com/>

Clients are invoiced through Freshbooks. All previous and recurring
invoices and associated reports can be found here:
[https://Dojo4.freshbooks.com/](https://dojo4.freshbooks.com/). Login
info in 1Password.

Hours logged in Redmine are pulled into Freshbooks through a integration
that we custom built for ourselves. Admin for that integration is here:
<https://projects.dojo4.com/freshbooks/projects>.

## Concord

<https://www.concordnow.com/>

Concord is the contracting service that we use for negotiating and
signing agreements with members, contractors and clients.

## Google Apps - calendar, email, Drive

We use Google apps for the following services:

  - email
  - calendars
  - Drive: shared docs, spreadsheets, etc.

## Slack

<https://slack.com/>

  

Dojo4 uses Slack to communicate with each other throughout the day.
Please be sure to be in Slack during working hours and whenever you are
doing Dojo4 work.

We've built various integrations and command bots:

  - Github - Flowdock pulls in all commits on Dojo4 repos
  - dojo4@dojo4.com - Flowdock pulls in all emails addressed to this
    general address (hint: good for recovering lost passwords, etc.)
  - .status - for posting status messages

  

## Justworks

<https://justworks.com/>

Dojo4 uses a PEO (professional employer organization) called Justworks
to manage general HR data and run payroll. As part of your onboarding
you will receive emails from Justworks asking you to create your own
private login and provide information that will be used for your I9, W4
(or 1099) and direct deposit. These systems will enable us to pay you
via direct deposit, as well as give you access to your health insurance
and other HR topics.

Dojo4 contractors will be onboarded using our contracting and HR
systems: concordnow.com and Justworks. We use these systems for legal,
tax and payment purposes. Contractor payments are all processed through
Justworks, though you can choose to receive either a check or direct
deposit.
