# Client Orientation

So, you're a client of Dojo4?

We're glad we found each other and are getting the chance to work
together. Here's an outline of some process tools that we like to use
and some suggestions for how to engage to make the process as effective,
efficient and smooth as possible...

## Project management and communication

We use [Redmine](https://www.redmine.org/) as our online project
management software. It allows us and our clients to create and manage
the tasks that make up the structure of each project. We do this using
*tickets* called *issues*. Each issue is a task or to-do, and anyone can
create, modify or comment on issues. Anyone who is part of the project
can thereby watch the project's progress by monitoring the issues.

### Getting Set Up...

Youâ€™ll get a login that will let you access the project site online.

![](https://d2eslrut6bvw18.cloudfront.net/v2/39196/contents/6mSJ8PkUepnJoFNM/mw1920_login1-lg.png)

### Getting Oriented

Feel free to click around and get familiar with the features of the
application.

![](https://d2eslrut6bvw18.cloudfront.net/v2/39196/contents/bxSzxn7vOC4vcMs2/mw1920_mypage.png)

![](https://d2eslrut6bvw18.cloudfront.net/v2/39196/contents/kf89uRHZs1aShOS7/mw1920_goodviews.png)

You can see where we're at with tickets by browsing the Issues or by
looking at Activity. Another way to monitor the progress of the project
is to look at the commits in
[Github](http://github.com/organizations/dojo4). This may be available
within your Redmine project, or you can login in to
[Github](http://github.com/) directly. If you don't have access to the
repo already, just ask.

### Creating a Ticket...

In order to create a new issue, click on the *new issue*; tab at the
top, fill out form and click **Create**; if that's the only new issue
you want to create, or **Create and continue**; if you want to create
another new issue. Don't worry too much about filling it out just right.
The most important areas to complete are:

**SUBJECT** - this is a good place to use ; language, e.g. *add vertical
scroll bar to app* or *get app running under chrome*, etc.

**DESCRIPTION** - use this area to describe what's needed

**PRIORITY** - assign the urgency you associate with this issue from
this pull-down menu

**ASSIGNEE** - please make sure you assign the issue to someone so that
we receive notification, don't worry if you have the right person
assigned as long as the field is not left blank

**DUE DATE** - does this task have a hard deadline? if not, just leave
it blank

**FILES** - if there are any documents or other attachments that are
useful in supporting this issue, please upload them here

**WATCHERS** - everyone with access to the project can see everything in
there (our team constantly monitors all activity in Redmine), but if
there is someone beside the **ASSIGNEE** that you'd like to pay special
attention, select them here...

![](https://d2eslrut6bvw18.cloudfront.net/v2/39196/contents/4hviDKtQOj917qTQ/mw1920_newissue.png)

**Please use Redmine, instead of email**, to make all project related
requests. We've found that it contributes positively to the momentum of
the project, if clients use this as the main way to ask for new tasks
and request changes. Email tends to bog things down and confuse, rather
than clarify, communication.
