# Client Onboarding Admin

*See also:*
[*https://projects.dojo4.com/documents/499*](https://projects.dojo4.com/documents/499)

## Communications

Once the client is ready to be onboarded, send them an email something
like one of these:

### Sample Onboarding Email

*Hi XXXX\!*

*I’m about to send you our agreements. There’s a basic master services
agreement and a lightweight engagement agreement- look for invites
through concordnow.com. You’ll have full edit access- please feel free
to make any necessary edits directly to the documents.*

*You’re also about to get an invitation to our project management tool
(Redmine) and I’m including our client onboarding survey here. Survey is
in no way a requirement but gives us added info about how best to work
with new clients, if you have time to jot down a few
thoughts: *[*https://dojo4.typeform.com/to/KzvasC*](https://dojo4.typeform.com/to/KzvasC)

*Same with our PM tool- you can choose to use it or not. We’ll be using
it for tasking, communication and documentation- and you’ll have full
access but if email is easier, use that and we’ll put your
communications in the tool ourselves. Here’s a
[mini-orientation](./client-comms.md).

*Let me know if there’s anyone else at XXXX that we should add to the
project or should receive the contracts for review. And just let me know
if you have any questions...*

*Best,*

*XXX*

**<span class="underline">OR</span>**

*Hi XXX,*

*All three of you are about to get an invitation to our project
management tool (Redmine). The url for the project is
here: *[*https://projects.dojo4.com/projects/XXX/*](https://projects.dojo4.com/projects/XXX/)*.
This is the custom online tool that we use to manage the project
internally at dojo4 - we use it for tasking, communication and
documentation. You’ll have full access and visibility into our workflow
and activity. However, if email is easier, use that and we’ll put your
communications in the tool ourselves. Here’s a
[mini-orientation](./client-comms.md)*.
If any of you does not need to be involved at this level, please just
ignore the invitation to the project tool. And if there is anyone else
from the XXX team that should be added, please let me know.*

*Our client onboarding survey can be found
here: *[*https://dojo4.typeform.com/to/KzvasC*](https://dojo4.typeform.com/to/KzvasC)*.
This survey is in no way a requirement but gives us added info about how
best to work with new clients, if you have time to jot down a few
thoughts.*

*We’ll follow up soon about scheduling a kickoff meeting and
introduction to the specific dojo4 team members that you’ll be working
with.*

*Best,*

*XXX*

### Documents & Agreements

[**Redmine orientation**](./redmine.md)

  - <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Lxqs20SOZwz3dY7f71AlT-gytqVYHKkpMqrsCtp8408/edit?usp=sharing>
  - <https://github.com/dojo4/projects2/blob/master/app/views/pages/orientation.html.erb>

**Various client onboarding docs**

  - <https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1DIf-QnMLZUwCr4f4qwDAJ-Q79g786knR?usp=sharing>

**Client orientation survey **

  - <https://dojo4.typeform.com/to/KzvasC>

**Master Services Agreement**

  - <https://secure.concordnow.com/negotiation/library/#/template/8769>
  - <https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1DIf-QnMLZUwCr4f4qwDAJ-Q79g786knR?usp=sharing>

**Engagement Agreements**

  - <https://secure.concordnow.com/negotiation/library/#/template/8770> and <https://secure.concordnow.com/negotiation/library/#/template/37276>
  - <https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1DIf-QnMLZUwCr4f4qwDAJ-Q79g786knR?usp=sharing>

  
