*Also see all Dojo4 Co-op legal documents here:*
[*https://github.com/dojo4/policy/tree/master/co-op*](https://github.com/dojo4/policy/tree/master/co-op)
*and in the Dojo4 Concord account at concordnow.com.*

### **Bylaws of**

# **Dojo4 LCA**

*(hereinafter the “Cooperative”)*

  

## **Preamble**

Whereas, the Members hereby acknowledge and agree that (a) these Bylaws
shall be deemed to supersede and exclusively govern the membership
relationship among the Members; and (b) that certain Amended and
Restated Operating Agreement dated as of February 2, 2015 is hereby
terminated and of no further force or effect as of the date hereof;

Whereas, the mission of Dojo4 LCA is to:

  - create exemplary technology and design products;
  - build technology that furthers positive social transformation;
  - allow us each to do purposeful work and accomplish our personal
    aspirations;
  - refrain from causing harm by releasing shoddy code, implementing
    misguided design, or letting our relationships go untended;
  - foster trusting, rigorous and joyful human relationships that bring
    value to our company, our professional partners and our community;
  - maintain a sustainable, well-run business that supports a small
    group of excellent engineers, designers and their families;

Whereas, the Cooperative subscribes and commits to the core values that
define our work as:

  - inherently meaningful when we enjoy doing it and learn from our
    partners and one another;
  - important as a medium for treating each other and ourselves well;
  - best providing value for our community, our professional partners
    and ourselves when it is performed in an environment that
    prioritizes integrity, knowledge and humor.

Whereas, the Cooperative adopts and subscribes to the seven
International Cooperative Alliance cooperative principles:

  - Voluntary and Open Membership.
  - Democratic Member Control.
  - Members' Economic Participation.
  - Autonomy and Independence.
  - Education, Training and Information.
  - Cooperation among Cooperatives.
  - Concern for Community.

Whereas, the Articles of Organization, as amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated by reference into these Bylaws.

  

  

  

# Article I **Membership and Authorized Capital**

  

## **Section 1**

Qualifications and Definition of Membership. Each of the following shall
be a “Member” of the Cooperative and collectively, all classes of
membership may be referred to herein as “Members.”

### **(a) Class A Council Member**

*(also referred to as “Council Member” or a “Class A Member”)*

Any natural person or entity (with no more than three beneficial owners)
may apply for admission to the Cooperative as a Class A Member, who
meets the following eligibility requirements.

The following eligibility requirements shall apply only to the initial
Council Members as of the date these Bylaws are first adopted:

  - Shall have been approved by unanimous consent by Ara Howard and
    Corey Kohn to become a Council Member; and
  - Shall have been a subcontractor, partner, or general material
    contributor to the Cooperative as of December 2, 2016.

The following eligibility requirements shall apply at all times after
March 4, 2017:

  - Unless waived or modified by the Board of Directors in its sole
    discretion, shall have worked for the Cooperative on a part or
    full-time basis either as a partner, consultant, or contractor for
    six (6) consecutive months, and have been approved by the unanimous
    consent of all Council Members, shall have satisfied all conditions
    precedent set forth in the Cooperative’s handbook, candidacy rules
    and requirements, and Class A Membership Agreement before being
    eligible to apply for Class A membership.
  - Shall undertake such patronage responsibilities and activities,
    which may be prescribed by these Bylaws, by policies promulgated
    from time to time by Council Members, the Board of Directors, or by
    member agreements executed in the ordinary course of business;
  - Agrees to purchase one (1) unit of Class A common voting unit in the
    Cooperative for a price per unit of $6,000.00 (the “Class A
    Membership Unit”), which price may be changed or increased from time
    to time by Council Members or the Board of Directors;
  - Agrees to acquire and at all times hold one and only one Class A
    Membership Unit per person;
  - Agrees to patronize the Cooperative pursuant to a Membership
    Agreement and such other policies and agreements as required by
    Council Members or the Board of Directors;
  - Agrees to at all times maintain good standing as a member of one or
    more classes of membership in the Cooperative;
  - Participates in Cooperative governance functions and
    responsibilities;
  - Agrees to execute such instruments and agreements as may reasonably
    be necessary or advisable for the Cooperative to carry out its
    lawful purpose(s);
  - Meets such other uniform conditions and qualification requirements
    as may be prescribed from time-to-time by the Board of Directors;
    and
  - Agrees to at all times abide by these Bylaws, and the rules and
    policies as may be established and adopted from time to time by the
    Council Members or the Board of Directors.

### **(b) Class B Investor-Member**

*(also referred to as “Investor-Members” or a “Class B Member”)*

Eligibility to acquire and hold Class B Units, as defined in this
article, section 7, shall be determined by the Board of Directors
limited to Ara Howard and Corey Kohn (and the successors, heirs, and
proper assignees of each), who (i) shall have contributed by written
agreement the entire membership interest in dojo4, LLC, the Colorado
limited liability company validly existing prior to and converting to
this Cooperative; and (ii) acknowledges that Class B Units have no
voting rights in the Cooperative.

### **(c) Admission to Membership**

The Cooperative, through or by the Board of Directors, or such other
authorized representative as it may appoint from time to time, may admit
to membership any applicant who (i) applies for admission for the
purpose of participating in the activities of the Cooperative and (ii)
meets all the requirements for application and membership under these
Bylaws, the statutes of the State of Colorado and policies established
by Council Members or the Board of Directors; (iii) purchases one (1)
Class A Unit, as defined in this article, section 7, in the Cooperative,
as applicable; (iv) executes a Membership Agreement or such other
agreement as the Board may require; and (v) has been approved by
unanimous consent of all Council Members; except that a person/entity
shall not be eligible for membership if the Board of Directors finds,
based on reasonable grounds, which shall not include discrimination on
the basis of sex, race, ethnicity, national origin, sexual orientation,
or any other status protected by federal or state law, that the
applicant's admission would prejudice the interests, hinder or otherwise
obstruct, or conflict with, any purpose or operation of the Cooperative.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Cooperative may
limit, postpone, delay or deny admission to an applicant for membership
into a particular membership class if, in the discretion of Council
Members or the Board of Directors, such admission would frustrate,
jeopardize or in any other way adversely affect the optimal size and
balance of the Council Member class, which shall be determined in the
discretion of Council Members or the Board of Directors and periodically
reviewed by the same.

An applicant shall be considered a member effective upon (i) acceptance
of his/her/its application; (ii) payment for the Class A Unit; and (iii)
full execution of such agreements as the Board may require. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, Class A Members may pay for
the Class A Membership Unit either in immediately available funds, via
an installment payment plan, or via periodic deductions from payments or
distributions made by the Cooperative to such Class A Member. A new
member's allocation of the cooperative's net margins for the year in
which he/she/it became a member shall be based on the relationship of
the member's patronage of the cooperative after he became a member to
the total patronage of all members for that year.

### **(d) Certificates of Interests in the Cooperative**

The Cooperative shall not be required to issue any certificates
representing memberships, capital unit, or other investments in the
Cooperative. If certificates are issued, the restrictions on transfer of
unit or membership shall be printed upon every certificate of unit or
certificate of membership subject to the restrictions. Certificates
shall also include the terms and conditions of redemption, if any.

### **(e) Criteria for Council Members to Consider for Acceptance of New Members**

Other than the eligibility requirements outlined in in Section 1(a),
Council Members should consider the following criteria when evaluating
potential Council Members. Not all of the following criteria need to be
met by a potential Council Member in order to be accepted, but each is
an important consideration for the health, conviviality and vitality of
the Cooperative. Council Members shall ask the following questions when
when evaluating potential Council Members:

  - (i) Does the person applying for membership exhibit an enthusiastic
    inclination toward self-sufficient problem-solving?
  - (ii) Does the person applying for membership exhibit an interest in
    the general flourishing of the culture and inherent well-being of
    the Cooperative in such a way that it seems to supercede their own
    self-interest in what they might get out of being a Member?
  - (iii) Does the person applying for membership exhibit a
    comfortability with risk-taking?
  - (iv) Do you enjoy the company of the person applying for membership?

  

## **Section 2**

### **Restrictions on Transfer of Membership Interest**

No membership interest may be transferred to any person or entity not
otherwise qualified to be a Member in the Cooperative or that does not
patronize the Cooperative, in accordance with Section 1 above, except:
to a spouse for holding in co-tenancy or joint tenancy with a right of
survivorship; to a business entity controlled by such holder; or to the
Cooperative upon the redemption or acquisition thereof by the
Cooperative. Any purported transfer or any transfer that results from
the operation of law shall be void and of no effect, unless consented to
in writing by the Board of Directors and entered into the records of the
Cooperative. If in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors,
membership is at any time held by any person or entity not otherwise
eligible to hold the same, the Board of Directors may in its sole
discretion, either redeem the proceeds of such membership interest,
including any unredeemed notices of allocation, or transfer such
membership interest to a non-membership equity account upon written
notification to the holder thereof and the person or entity shall not be
entitled to vote at the membership meeting of the Cooperative.

  

## **Section 3**

### **(a) Withdrawal**

Notwithstanding that the terms, conditions and continuation of certain
obligations pursuant to such agreements as may exist between a Council
Member and the Cooperative shall continue in full force and effect
notwithstanding the foregoing, a Council Member may withdraw from the
Cooperative by providing thirty (30) calendar days written notice of the
Council Member's intent to withdraw to the Secretary of the Cooperative
or to such other representative as authorized by the Board. The form of
such written withdrawal may be prescribed by the Board. A withdrawing
Council Member shall be considered an active Council Member entitled to
all benefits entitled and accruing thereto pursuant to these Bylaws
until the withdrawal becomes effective. Unless a Council Member has
withdrawn because the Member has died, dissolved its business, is no
longer eligible for membership in the Cooperative, or because of a
violation of any agreements, policies or procedures of the Cooperative,
a Council Member who withdraws shall be eligible to reapply for
membership in the Cooperative at any time following the effective date
of such withdrawal. Notwithstanding a Council Member’s right to
withdraw, the Board reserves the right to delay, postpone, withdraw,
suspend, or otherwise decide unilaterally the timing and method by which
the equity represented by a Council Member’s Membership Unit may be
redeemed. The Board shall have the sole discretion to determine the
timing and method of any redemption of a Council Member’s equity.

### **(b) Termination of Council Members**

Except in circumstances where cause exists, if, following a hearing,
prior to which ten (10) calendar days written notice of intention to
terminate was given to a Council Member by the Cooperative, Council
Members shall find that the member has: (i) ceased patronizing the
Cooperative, or has failed to meet its patronage obligations as provided
in the Membership Agreement for a consecutive period of twelve (12)
months; (ii) has violated any other provision of the Membership
Agreement or any other policy or procedures of the Cooperative; (iii)
died, dissolved its business, or has otherwise ceased patronage
activities; (iv) otherwise ceased to be eligible for membership in the
Cooperative; (v) otherwise been disruptive to the orderly operation of
the Cooperative or frustrated the Cooperative’s purpose or efforts,
Council Members, by a two-thirds super-majority vote (excluding Member
subject to termination) may terminate, effective immediately, the
Council Member’s voting rights and membership in the Cooperative.

Cause shall be limited to acts of deception, personal unjust enrichment,
or other acts customarily giving rise to summary termination. Cause
shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors.

### **(c) Rights and Interest on Withdrawal or Termination**

On the date a Council Member's withdrawal becomes effective or upon the
termination of the Council Member's membership in the Cooperative by
Council Members or the Board of Directors, all rights and interests of
the Council Member in the Cooperative shall cease and the Council Member
shall be entitled only to payment for the value of the Council Member's
equity interest in the Cooperative, as defined in this Section 3. The
equity interest of a Member is limited to the value of that Member’s
Capital Account (the “Terminated Member Redemption Price”). For purposes
of calculating that Member’s Patronage Allocation, as defined in this
article, section 7, a Council Member shall be entitled to a Patronage
Allocation to be pro-rated from the start of the fiscal year up to the
effective date of withdrawal or termination, as defined herein. Within
ninety (90) days after the effective date of the Council Member's
withdrawal or termination, the Cooperative shall consider distributing
to the Council Member the Terminated Member Redemption Price, either in
cash, by issuing a promissory note, or some combination thereof, to be
decided in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board shall have the sole discretion
to delay, withhold, modify or otherwise control the timing of any
redemption or equity distribution if it would impair the financial
health of the Cooperative.

The property rights and interest of Investor-Members are limited to the
original purchase price paid for the Class B Units, plus any declared
but undistributed allocations.

  

## **Section 4**

### **Representations of Certain Members**

If a Member of the Cooperative is other than a natural person, the
Member shall be represented by any individual, associate, officer,
Manager, or Member thereof duly authorized by the Member in writing
delivered to the Secretary of the Cooperative.

  

## **Section 5**

### **Consent to Tax Treatment**

Each Member who hereafter applies for and is accepted as a Member in
this Cooperative and each Member of this Cooperative as of the effective
date of these Bylaws, who continues as a Member after such date shall by
such act alone consent that the amounts of any allocation or
distributions with respect to (i) his/her/its patronage occurring on or
after such effective date, if of a Council Member; or (ii) his/her/its
Capital Account balance on or after such effective date, if by an
Investor-Member, shall be made in accordance with the Internal Revenue
Code Subchapter K, which governs entities taxed as partnerships but
based upon the amounts a Member patronizes the Cooperative (as
hereinafter defined). Members shall receive annual Schedule K-1
partnership returns reflecting all income and loss from the Cooperative
for the prior taxable year. Each Member further agrees to account fully
for all allocated profit/loss income of the Cooperative on his/her/its
personal income tax filings to the extent reported on an annual Schedule
K-1, which may include income generated in multiple states and for which
Member agrees to declare and pay tax in such states, notwithstanding
that Member may not reside in the states in which the Cooperative’s
business income was generated.

  

## **Section 6**

### **Record of Members**

A record of the Members and their full names, addresses, and social
security or tax identification numbers shall be kept by the Cooperative.
Each Member shall notify the Secretary immediately of any change in the
Member's address, social security number, or tax identification number.

  

## **Section 7**

### **Authorized Capital**

**(a) Class A Units**

The aggregate number of voting units which the Cooperative is authorized
to issue is one hundred (100) Class A Units, no par value (the “Class A
Unit” or “Council Membership Units”). Each unit of Class A Units shall
have one and only one vote on all matters for which a vote may or is to
be taken as defined in the Bylaws, and when issued shall be fully paid,
non-assessable and may not be sold, assigned or otherwise transferred,
voluntarily or involuntarily, by operation of law or otherwise, except
for a transfer to the Cooperative under the redemption provisions set
forth in the Bylaws of the Cooperative.

**(b) Class B Units**

The aggregate number of Class B Units which the Cooperative is
authorized to issue is one thousand (1,000) units of Class B Unit, no
par value (the “Class B Unit” or “Investor Membership Units”). Units of
Class B Units will be issued in one class. Units of Class B Units shall
have no voting rights, except as may be required by law. Class B Units,
when issued shall be fully paid, non-assessable, and may not be sold,
assigned or otherwise transferred, voluntarily or involuntarily, by
operation of law or otherwise, except for a transfer to the Cooperative
under the redemption provisions set forth in the Bylaws of the
Cooperative or except as otherwise provided in the Bylaws.

**(c) The respective preferences, voting powers, qualifications and
special or relative rights or privileges of or applicable to Class A and
Class B Units are as follows:**

  

### **Class A Unit (Council Membership Units)**

**Membership**

Restricted eligibility for the ownership of units of Class A Units shall
be in accordance with the Cooperative’s Bylaws.

***Rights and Privileges***

**Voting**

The holders of Class A Units are entitled to no more than a single vote
per unit on any matter for which a vote by Class A Members may or is to
be taken as prescribed in the Cooperative’s Bylaws. Each Class A
Membership Unit shall entitle the holder thereof to one (1) vote.

**Patronage Allocations**

No Allocations are paid on units of Class A Units, however, all or part
of the net earnings or losses of the Cooperative shall be allocated to
the holders of Membership Units on the basis of each Class A Member’s
patronage, as determined by the Board of Directors on an annual basis
and in accordance with the Bylaws (“Patronage Allocation”).

**Liquidation Rights**

Subject to preferential liquidation rights of the holders of Class B
Units as provided in the Bylaws of the Cooperative, Class A Units shall
be entitled to distributions of residual proceeds resulting from a
Liquidation Event (as hereinafter defined) on a pari passu basis
(“Liquidation Rights”).

**Liquidation Event**

One transaction or a series of related transactions including a plan
duly approved in accordance with the Cooperative’s Articles of
Organization and Bylaws for (A) the closing of the sale, transfer or
other disposition of all or substantially all of the Cooperative’s
assets, (B) the consummation of the merger or consolidation of the
Cooperative with or into another entity (except a merger or
consolidation in which the holders of capital units of the Cooperative
immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continue to hold at
least 50% of the voting power of the capital units of the Cooperative or
the surviving or acquiring entity), or (C) the closing of the transfer
(whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise), in one transaction or a
series of related transactions, to a person or group of affiliated
persons (other than an underwriter of the Cooperative’s securities), of
the Cooperative’s securities if, after such closing, such person or
group of affiliated persons would hold 50% or more of the outstanding
voting unit of the Cooperative (or the surviving or acquiring entity)
(“Liquidation Event”); provided, however, that a transaction shall not
constitute a Liquidation Event if its sole purpose is to change the
state of the Cooperative’s incorporation or to create a holding
Cooperative that will be owned in substantially the same proportions by
the persons who held the Cooperative’s securities immediately prior to
such transaction. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the sale of units
of Class B Units in a bona fide financing transaction shall not be
deemed a Liquidation Event.

  

### **Class B Unit (Investor Membership Units)**

**Membership**

Issuance of Class B Units may be limited in the sole discretion of the
Board of Directors.

**No Voting Rights**

The Class B Units shall not be entitled to voting rights, except as
required by law.

**Allocations**

When and as declared by the Cooperative’s Board and to the extent
permitted under C.R.S. Title 7, Article 58; Class B Units shall be
entitled to receive variable, non-cumulative annual dividends out of the
net earnings of the Cooperative available therefor. The target dividend
rate shall be 5%, which shall not be guaranteed, and shall be declared
and distributed in the sole discretion of the Board.

**Liquidation Rights**

Class B Units shall be entitled to priority with respect to the
distribution in a Liquidity Event, as set forth in these Bylaws. Class B
Units shall be entitled to distributions of residual proceeds resulting
from a Liquidation Event on a pari passu basis.

**Put Right**

Class B Unitholders shall have put and call rights as provided in the
Bylaws of the Cooperative.

Holders of Class B Units shall have the right, beginning two (2) years
from the date of purchase or grant Class B Units, to request that the
Cooperative redeem such Units at a redemption price equal to the
original purchase price plus any declared but unredeemed allocations
(the “Redemption Price”) as follows:

  - After year 2: at 70% of the Redemption Price;
  - After year 3: at 80% of the Redemption Price;
  - After year 4: at 90% of the Redemption Price; and
  - After year 5: at 100% of the Redemption Price.

The Board of Directors shall have the right from time to time to modify
the above timing and percentages applicable to the put right of holders
of Class B Units. The Cooperative may redeem the Class B Units at the
Redemption Prices described above by payment in cash or the issuance of
promissory notes having a five-year term with annual interest in an
amount that is not less than the applicable federal rate of interest, or
any combination of the foregoing.

Requests for redemptions shall be made in writing.

In the event the Board of Directors grants the request for redemption,
the Cooperative shall tender the Redemption Price to the holders of
Class B Units who requested redemption within thirty (30) days after
receipt of such request in the form of cash, a promissory note with
interest not less than the applicable federal interest rate.

If at any time the Board determines that it is not in the best interests
of the Cooperative to redeem equity, the Board of Directors determines
that the payment of the aggregate Redemption Price payable pursuant to
requests for redemption will impair the ability of the Cooperative to
operate effectively, the Board of Directors shall have the discretion to
limit, postpone or refuse requests for redemption.

  

  

  

# Article II **Meetings of Members**

  

## **Section 1**

### **Meetings of Members**

Meetings of Council Members of the Cooperative, as previously determined
by the Board of Directors, may take place in person, by telephone
conference, by internet conference, by video conference, or by any other
electronic or telecommunications means by which the Council Members can
effectively communicate, following the notice procedures prescribed in
these Bylaws.

  

## **Section 2**

### **Regular Annual Membership Meeting**

A regular annual membership meeting of Council Members shall be held
annually on May 1 of each year, or within one hundred eighty (180) days
after the close of the fiscal year on a date and at such time and place
in the area served by the Cooperative as may be determined by the Board
of Directors and specified in the proper notice of the meeting. At all
regular meetings of Council Members, any and all lawful business may be
brought before the meeting regardless of whether stated in the notice of
the meeting; except that amendments to the Articles of Incorporation or
the Bylaws of the Cooperative or other action required to be stated in
the notice of the meeting shall not be subject to action unless notice
thereof is stated in the notice of the meeting. The Secretary shall
prepare and post the Membership List (as defined herein) in a
conspicuous location during a regular annual membership meeting.

  

## **Section 3**

### **Special Membership Meetings**

Special meetings of the Council Members of the Cooperative may be called
at any time by order of the Board of Directors, by such officer(s) as
may be designated in these Bylaws, or upon a written petition of at
least twenty five percent (25%) of the Council Members, such petition
delivered to the President or the Secretary of the Cooperative stating
the specific business to be brought before the meeting and shall state
the time, date, and place of the meeting. The petition shall specify a
date for such Special Membership Meeting that is no less than ten (10)
days and no more than sixty (60) days from the date of the petition. The
place stated in the petition shall be a place reasonably convenient for
the general membership. At all special meetings of the members of the
Cooperative, business brought before the meeting shall be limited to the
purpose stated in the notice. The Secretary shall prepare shall post the
Membership List in a conspicuous location during a special membership
meeting.

  

## **Section 4**

### **Notice of Meetings**

Written notice of every regular and special meeting of the Council
Members shall be prepared and mailed or electronically mailed to the
last known U.S. Post Office or email address of each Member not less
than ten (10) days before the meeting. The notice shall state the time
and place, and the business to come before the meeting. Class B Members
shall be entitled to notice of all regular annual membership meetings,
and those special membership meetings as determined by the Board.

  

## **Section 5**

### **(a) Waiver of Notice**

When any notice is required to be given to any Council Member of the
Cooperative by law or under the provisions of the Articles of
Incorporation or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof shall be equivalent to
the delivery of proper notice, provided such waiver is in writing signed
by the Member entitled to the notice, whether before, at, or after the
time stated in the notice.

### **(b) Waiver by Attendance**

By attending a meeting, a Council Member: (i) waives objection to lack
of notice or defective notice of the meeting unless the Council Member,
at the beginning of the meeting, objects to the holding of the meeting
or the transacting of business at the meeting; and (ii) waives objection
to consideration at the meeting of a particular matter not within the
purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice unless the Council
Member objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
"Attendance" shall include attendance in person at any meeting,
participating in a telephonic meeting, or participation by signing into
a tele-conference or other form of internet on-line meeting format as
prescribed by the Board of Directors for that particular meeting.

  

## **Section 6**

### **(a) Voting at Meetings**

At all membership meetings, each qualified Class A Member holding one
(1) unit of voting Class A Units for each current membership, provided
such Council Member is in good standing in accordance with all policies
duly adopted by the Board, shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each
unit of voting Class A Units held. Provided quorum exists, all matters
shall require an affirmative vote of a two-thirds super-majority of the
Council Members present and entitled to vote, except as otherwise
specifically provided by law, the Articles of Organization or these
Bylaws. Votes shall only be counted among Council Members present and
entitled to vote, including proxy votes.

### **(b) Proxy and Cumulative Voting**

Voting by proxy is permitted at all meetings, provided the proxy
authorization is memorialized in writing, signed by both Members.
Cumulative voting is prohibited at any and all meetings of the
Cooperative. For purposes of this subsection (b), all duly prepared and
delivered powers of attorney shall be considered to be proxies.

### **(c) Voting by Mail or by Electronic Means**

For any meetings of Council Members, the Board of Directors, at its
election, may submit motions, resolutions, or other matters to be voted
upon to all Council Members for vote by ballots transmitted by mail
through the U.S. Postal Service. In addition, the Board of Directors, at
its election, may submit motions, resolutions, or other matters to be
voted upon to all Council Members for vote by any electronic means
(including, but not limited to, email ballots, internet drop box voting,
electronic voting systems, etc.) that the Board deems reasonable and
that will allow all of the Council Members to vote. Email ballots shall
be deemed properly delivered when transmitted by sender. The ballots may
be returned to the Cooperative by mail, by email, or by any other
reasonable means, as directed in instructions to be delivered with the
ballots. The ballots shall be counted only in the meeting at the time at
which the vote is taken, provided that all Council Members have been
notified in writing, pursuant to action by the Board of Directors, of
the exact wording of the motion or resolution upon which the vote is
taken, and a copy of the motion or resolution is forwarded with and
attached to the vote of the Council Member voting. If a matter, for
which mailed or emailed ballots have been delivered and received by the
Cooperative, must be amended at the meeting, the meeting shall be
adjourned with respect to that matter until a new vote can be solicited
by mail or email with respect to the amended matter. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if a quorum is present at such meeting and a simple majority
vote of the Council Members approves the matter as amended, the meeting
need not be adjourned with respect to that amended matter.

  

## **Section 7**

### **Quorum**

A simple majority of the Council Members, present and voting in person
or in any other manner authorized by these Bylaws, shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Council
Members, except for the transaction of business concerning which a
different quorum is specifically provided by law. In the event a quorum
is not present or is lost during the meeting, the meeting may be
recessed or adjourned from time to time without further notice by a
majority of those present until a quorum is obtained. Any business may
be transacted at the resumption of the recessed meeting that might have
been transacted at the originally called meeting. In the event a quorum
is not present or is lost during the meeting, the meeting may be
recessed or adjourned from time to time without further notice by a
majority of those present until a quorum is obtained. Any business may
be transacted at the resumption of the recessed meeting that might have
been transacted at the originally called meeting.

  

## **Section 8**

### **Order of Business**

All membership meetings of the Cooperative shall be presided upon in
accordance with these Bylaws. The officer presiding over membership
meetings shall have the discretion to adopt and enforce formal
governance procedures and rules. The following order of business shall
be used as a guide insofar as is applicable and desirable:

  - Determination of quorum
  - Proof of due notice of meeting
  - Reading and disposition of minutes
  - Financial report
  - Report of Board of Directors by President or Vice President
  - Report of Secretary-Treasurer
  - Report of General Manager
  - Reports of committees
  - Nominations for vacancies on the Board of Directors
  - Elections
  - Unfinished business
  - New business
  - Adjournment

  

## **Section 9**

### **Action without a Meeting**

Actions of the Council Members may be taken without a meeting if the
action is agreed to by all Council Members eligible to vote on such
matter, and approval to take such action is evidenced by one or more
written consents or electronically transmitted approvals, signed by all
Council Members entitled to vote on such matter and filed with the
corporate records reflecting the action taken.

  

## **Section 10**

### **Matters Requiring Member Approval**

In addition to those matters for which Council Member approval is
required as a matter of custom or law, the following matters are so
integral to the ethos and operations of the Cooperative that they shall
require the approval of the Council Members:

  - Admission of new Council Members;
  - Determining which roles are non-Council Member track and which are,
    and determining or amending trial period for prospective Council
    Members;
  - Terminating Council Members;
  - Electing members of Board of Directors;
  - Accepting new clients;
  - Annual review of existing clients;
  - Amending the Bylaws and Articles of Organization;
  - Change of control event: merger, acquisition, liquidation,
    demutualization;
  - Successful petition by the Council Members to implement: new work
    standards (e.g. brick house vs wood frame house technique), new
    policies, or new business opportunities;
  - Adoption of ethics code, statement of values and amendments or
    changes thereto; and
  - Withdrawal of, refusal to cure, or any other action to intentionally
    relinquish B-Corp certification.

  

## **Section 11**

### **Required Attendance and Participation**

Each Council Member shall attend and participate in at least 30% of
membership meetings, matters presented for electronic voting or actions
proposed to be taken without a meeting, as defined in this Article
(collectively the “Membership Activities”). If a Member fails to attend
at least 30% of Membership Activities within the prior one year, the
Board may, but shall not be required to, suspend that Council Member’s
economic and/or voting privileges or suspend that Member’s membership in
the Cooperative.

  

  

  

# Article III **Directors**

  

## **Section 1**

### **Number and Qualifications of Directors**

The initial Board of Directors shall consist of the Council Members, and
who shall each serve until the sooner of (i) such time as the number of
Council Members exceeds seven (7); or (ii) annual meeting of the Council
Members in 2018 ("Initial Board")

Thereafter, the Board of Directors shall consist of no fewer than three
(3) and up to a maximum of five (5) natural persons, who are each at
least eighteen (18) years of age. The Board may include non-member
Directors as permitted by law, however, all Directors shall be elected
by the Council Members, in accordance with these bylaws:

  - No fewer than a majority of seats shall be reserved for Council
    Members (“Council Director or Board Seat”) (the “Council Member
    Directors” or “Council Member Board Seats”); and
  - No fewer than one (1) and no more than a minority of seat(s) shall
    be reserved for an external Director, who is not a Member (“External
    Directors” or “External Board Seats”).

Persons from the Initial Board who are Council Members shall be eligible
for re-election to serve on succeeding boards, on such terms as are
prescribed herein. A vacancy on the Board of Directors may be declared
at the discretion of the Board of Directors after any Director fails to
attend three (3) consecutive regular Board meetings without cause and a
replacement Director may be appointed as provided in Section 7 of this
Article.

  

## **Section 2**

### **(a) Nomination of Directors**

At any time no more than ninety (90) days and no fewer than thirty (30)
days prior to the annual meeting during which Directors are to elected,
Council Members may submit written nominations for prospective
Directors, specifying whether such Director is a Council Member Director
or an External Director. Each nominee shall have agreed to accept the
directorship and its responsibilities if elected. Each nominee must be
willing to accept all the responsibilities of Directors of the
Cooperative, to attend the Directors' meetings and other training and
informational meetings to better serve as Directors and to become
familiar with the Cooperative's Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws,
organizational structure, objectives, policies and procedures.

### **(b) Election of Directors**

Each Board Seat shall be filled separately and election shall be as
prescribed by the Board of Directors in person, or by mail or e-mail
ballots. Newly elected Directors shall become members of the Board at
the first meeting of the Board of Directors following their election. To
be elected, a nominee for a Board Seat shall either (i) be one of the
candidates receiving the largest number of votes to prevail in a
contested election; or (ii) receive a two-thirds super-majority vote of
all Council Members present and entitled to vote in an un-contested
election.

  

## **Section 3**

### **Term**

Directors shall be elected for a term of two (2) years, except that the
terms of directors shall be staggered so that the terms of no more than
a minority of then existing Director seats shall expire in any one year
and the initial term of a Director elected to fill a vacancy shall be
only for the remaining period of the unexpired term.

  

## **Section 4**

### **Election of Officers**

The Board of Directors shall hold a meeting within thirty (30) days
after the adjournment of the annual membership meeting for the purpose
of organizing the Board of Directors. Nominations for the election of
officers shall be made by Directors from the floor at the Director's
meeting where the officers are to be elected. They shall elect a
President. The Board may elect one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary,
and a Treasurer as determined in the discretion of the Board. Each
officer shall hold office until the election and qualification of a
successor unless earlier removed by death, resignation, or in accordance
of these Bylaws. The Board may create, alter, and abolish such
additional offices and its attendant duties in its discretion and may
appoint persons to serve in such offices at the pleasure of the Board.

  

## **Section 5**

### **Removal of Officers or Directors**

**(a)** At a meeting called expressly for that purpose, as well as any
other proper purpose, a Director may be removed by the Council Members
in the manner provided in this Section. Removal of a Director requires
an affirmative vote of a two-thirds (67%) super-majority of Council
Members present and voting if in person, by mail or by email. If removal
of a Director is by the Board, then by a two-thirds (67%) super-majority
of the members of the Board not subject to removal.

**(b)** The Board may remove a Director who does not meet the
qualifications for Board membership set forth in these Bylaws.

**(c)** Council Members may remove one or more Directors with or without
cause. A written petition signed by at least a twenty-five percent (25%)
of Council Members may initiate a vote to remove a Director, in
accordance with Section 5(a) above. No petition shall seek removal of
more than one (1) Director.

**(d)** Any Director subject to a removal petition under any provisions
of this section shall be promptly informed in writing by the Board and
shall have the opportunity, in person and by counsel, to be heard and
present evidence at the meeting called for the vote. The persons seeking
a Director's removal shall have the same privilege.

**(e)** The Board of Directors shall have the power to remove any
officer of the Cooperative with or without cause, by a simple majority
vote of the Directors not serving as the officer subject to removal.

  

## **Section 6**

### **Referendum**

Upon demand of at least one half (50%) of the entire Board of Directors,
made immediately at the same meeting at which the original motion was
passed and so recorded, any matter of policy that has been approved or
passed by the Board must be referred to the Council Members for
ratification at the next regular or special meeting of the members, and
a special meeting may be called for that purpose.

  

## **Section 7**

### **Vacancies**

Whenever a vacancy occurs in the Board of Directors, except from the
expiration of a term of office, the remaining Directors shall, as soon
as practicable, appoint a replacement to fill the vacancy until the
expiration of the term of the vacant position.

  

## **Section 8**

### **Board Meetings**

Regular meetings shall be held by the Board of Directors at least once
per fiscal year, or more frequently, at such place (including online)
and time as the Board may determine.

  

## **Section 9**

### **Special Meetings**

Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called
by the President or by a majority of Directors at a time and place
specified in the notice (including online meetings). Any and all
business may be transacted at any special meeting. A meeting of the
Board of Directors may be held at any time or place with or without
notice upon the consent of all the Directors.

  

## **Section 10**

### **Notice of Board Meetings**

Prior written notice of each meeting of the Board of Directors shall be
delivered to each Director at least ten (10) calendar days for regular
meetings and at least three (3) business days for any special meetings,
provided, that the Board may establish regular meeting places, dates,
and times for which the aforementioned notice need not be given. Notice
may be waived by any or all of the Directors, and appearance at a
meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice thereof, except if a
director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the
transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting has not been
lawfully called or convened.

  

## **Section 11**

### **Telephonic Meeting**

One or more members of the Board of Directors or any committee
designated by the Board may participate in a meeting of the Board or
committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications
medium by which all persons participating in the meeting can communicate
effectively. Such participation shall constitute presence in person at
the meeting.

  

## **Section 12**

### **Quorum and Voting**

A simple majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum at
any meeting of the Board. In the event a quorum is lost during a
meeting, however, the meeting may proceed. Each member of the Board,
including each officer who is a member of the Board, shall be entitled
to one (1) vote per member of the Board on any matter coming before the
Board, except, no Director shall vote on any matter in which he has a
pecuniary self-interest in any capacity other than as a Council Member
of the Cooperative. A Director who has a pecuniary self-interest may,
however, vote on such a matter if the remaining disinterested Directors
ratify the vote on such matter and deem the decision to be in the best
interest of the Cooperative. Any matter upon which the Board may vote
shall require a two-thirds (67%) super-majority affirmative vote of
those present and voting to pass.

  

## **Section 13**

### **Assent to Action**

A Director is considered to have assented to an action of the Board
unless:

  - The Director votes against it or abstains and causes the abstention
    to be recorded in the minutes of the meeting;
  - The Director objects at the beginning of the meeting and does not
    later vote for it;
  - The Director has his or her dissent recorded in the minutes;
  - The Director does not attend the meeting at which the vote is taken;
    or
  - The Director gives notice of his or her objection in writing to the
    Secretary within twenty-four (24) hours after the meeting.

  

## **Section 14**

### **Action without a Meeting**

Actions of the Board may be taken without a meeting if the action is
agreed to by all Directors and is evidenced by one or more written
consents signed, or electronically submitted via email, by all Directors
and filed with the corporate records reflecting the action taken.

  

## **Section 15**

### **Compensation**

Reasonable procedures for the expense reimbursement of the members of
the Board of Directors shall be established by the Board of Directors.
Directors will not be eligible for any compensation for their service as
Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Directors may be eligible for
compensation arising from or as provided for in a Membership Agreement,
Employment Agreement or any other agreement governing the terms and
conditions of a membership interest in the Cooperative. At the first
regular Board meeting of each fiscal year the reimbursement policies
shall be established. Directors may be reimbursed for actual and
reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred in service to the
Cooperative.

  

## **Section 16**

### **Executive Committee**

The Board of Directors may in its discretion appoint from its own
membership an executive committee of three Board members, provided at
least one (1) is a Council Member Director, to determine the tenure of
office of the committee's members and their powers and duties. The Board
of Directors may delegate to the executive committee all or any stated
portion of the functions and powers of the Board of Directors, subject
to the general direction, approval, and control of the Board, however,
the Board of Directors shall not purport to delegate its fiduciary
duties to an executive or any other committee comprised of
non-Directors. Copies of the minutes of any meeting of the executive
committee shall be mailed or emailed to all Directors within thirty (30)
days following the meeting.

  

## **Section 17**

### **Other Committees**

The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, appoint such other
committees from its own number or from the membership, as may be
necessary.

  

## **Section 18**

### **General Standards of Conduct for Directors and Officers**

Each Director shall discharge his or her duties as a Director, including
duties as a member of a committee, and each officer with discretionary
authority shall discharge his or her duties under that authority:

  - In good faith and proper purpose;
  - With the care an ordinary prudent person in a like position would
    exercise under similar circumstances;
  - In a manner the Director reasonably believes to be in the best
    interests of the Cooperative and its membership; and
  - In discharging his or her duties, and in determining what is in the
    best interests of the Cooperative and its Members, a Director shall
    not be required to regard any interest, or the interests of any
    particular group affected by such action, as a dominant or
    controlling interest or factor.

He or she shall give due consideration to the following factors,
including, but not limited to, the long-term prospects and interests of
the Cooperative and its Members, and the social, economic, legal, or
other effects of any action on the current and retired employees and
partners, the suppliers and customers of the Cooperative or its
subsidiaries, and the communities and society in which the Cooperative
or its subsidiaries operate, (collectively, with the members, the
"Stakeholders"), together with the short-term, as well as long-term,
interests of its members and the effect of the Cooperative’s operations
(and its subsidiaries' operations) on the environment and the economy of
the state, the region, and the nation.

Nothing in this section express or implied, is intended to create or
shall create or grant any right in or for any person other than a member
or any cause of action by or for any person other than a Member.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Director is entitled to rely upon the
definition of "best interests" as set forth above in enforcing his or
her rights hereunder and under state law, and such reliance shall not,
absent another breach, be construed as a breach of a Director’s
fiduciary duty of care, even in the context of a change in control
transaction, where, as a result of weighing other Stakeholders'
interests, a Director determines to accept an offer, between two
competing offers, with a lower price per unit.

In discharging his or her duties, a Director or officer is entitled to
rely on information, opinions, reports, or statements, including
financial statements and other financial data, if prepared or presented
by:

  - One or more officers or partners of the Cooperative whom the
    Director or officer reasonably believes to be reliable and competent
    in the matters presented;
  - Legal counsel, a public accountant, or another person as to matters
    the Director or officer reasonably believes are within such person's
    professional or expert competence; or
  - In the case of a Director, a committee of the Board of Directors of
    which the Director is to a member if the Director reasonably
    believes the committee merits confidence.

A Director or officer is not acting in good faith if he or she has
knowledge concerning the matter in question that makes reliance
otherwise permitted by subsection (b) of this section unwarranted.

  

## **Section 19**

### **Indemnification**

The Cooperative shall indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law in effect from time to time, any person, and the estate
and personal representative of any such person, against all liability
and expense (including attorney’s fees) incurred by reason of the fact
that he or she is or was a Director or officer of the Cooperative or,
while serving as a Director or officer of the Cooperative, he or she is
or was serving at the request of the Cooperative as a Director, officer,
partner, trustee, partner, fiduciary, or agent of, or in any similar
managerial or fiduciary position of, another domestic or foreign
Cooperative or other individual or entity or of an partner benefit plan.
The Cooperative shall also indemnify any person who is serving or has
served the Cooperative as Director, officer, partner, fiduciary or
agent, and the estate and personal representative of any such person, to
the extent and in the manner provided in any bylaw, resolution of the
Board or the Unitholders, contract, or otherwise, so long as such
provision is legally permissible. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary herein, such indemnity shall not extend to conduct not
undertaken in good faith to promote the best interests of the
Cooperative, nor to any recklessness or willful misconduct; and,
provided further, that this indemnification shall be limited to the
total assets of the Cooperative.

  

  

  

# Article IV ** **Duties of Directors**

  

## **Section 1**

### **Management of Business**

The Board of Directors shall have general supervision and control of the
business and the affairs of the Cooperative and shall make all rules and
regulations not inconsistent with law, the Articles of Organization or
with these Bylaws for the management of the business and the guidance of
the Members, officers, subcontractors, partners, and agents of the
Cooperative. The Board shall have installed an accounting system which
shall be adequate to the requirements of the business, and it shall be
the duty of the Directors to require proper records to be kept of all
business transactions.

  

## **Section 2**

### **Employment of Chief Executive Officer and Others**

The Board of Directors may employ one or more Managers (“Manager”) who
shall be a natural person, define the Manager’s duties, compensation and
negotiate employment contracts. The Board shall authorize the employment
of such auditors, agents, and counsel as it from time to time deems
necessary or advisable in the interest of the Cooperative, and prescribe
their duties. The Board shall have general oversight and supervisory
responsibility for the Manager’s performance and shall have the ultimate
authority to hire, fire, discipline, or remove the Manager, subject to
the terms of any agreements between the Manager and the Cooperative or
the Board.

  

## **Section 3**

### **Reports of Business Activity and Finances**

The Board of Directors shall present at each regular meeting of the
Members and, if appropriate, at special meetings of the Members a
detailed statement or report of the business of the preceding year. The
statements shall show the financial condition of the Cooperative at the
end of the fiscal year and shall be in a form as shall fully exhibit to
the Members a complete illustration of the assets and liabilities of the
Cooperative, of the cash on hand, inventory, and indebtedness and all
other facts and figures pertinent to a complete understanding of the
Cooperative's financial position for the period. The books and records
of the Cooperative shall be kept in accordance with the terms of these
Bylaws and otherwise in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles, consistently applied.

  

## **Section 4**

### **Bonds and Insurance**

The Board of Directors may require the Manager, if employed, and all
other officers, agents, and partners charged by the Cooperative with
responsibility for the custody of any of its funds or negotiable
instruments to give adequate bonds. The bonds, if required, unless cash
security is given, shall be furnished by a responsible bonding company
and shall be approved by the Board of Directors, and the cost thereof
shall be paid by the Cooperative. The Board of Directors shall provide
for the adequate insurance of the property of the Cooperative, or
property which may be in possession of the Cooperative and/or
Cooperative partners or stored by it and not otherwise adequately
insured. The Board shall provide for adequate insurance covering
liability for accidents to all partners and the public.

By resolution of the Board adopted in accordance these Bylaws, the
Cooperative may obtain and continuously maintain a so-called “key man”
life insurance policy covering the lives each of the Managers in the
amount anticipated to be sufficient to fund the dissolution distribution
to be paid hereunder and naming the Cooperative as the named insured and
beneficiary thereunder.

  

## **Section 5**

### **Financial Reports**

Within ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year, the
Cooperative shall transmit to each Member for such fiscal year: (i) the
Cooperative’s balance sheet as of the end of such fiscal year and the
Cooperative’s profit and loss statement for such fiscal year, all in
reasonable detail; and (ii) to the Members, a report setting forth the
balance of each Member’s Capital Account as of the end of such fiscal
year and a description of the manner of its calculation.

The Cooperative shall also deliver to each Member and to each Person (or
his, her, or its legal representative) who was a Member during any part
of the fiscal year a Schedule K-1 for such fiscal year by the IRS
deadline for Schedule K-1s. Upon request from any Member, the
Cooperative shall deliver a copy of the Cooperative’s federal income tax
return for such fiscal year to such Member.

  

## **Section 6**

### **Depository**

The Board of Directors shall have the power to select one or more banks
to act as depositories of the funds of the Cooperative and to determine
the manner of receiving, depositing, and disbursing the funds of the
Cooperative and the form of checks – or other types of electronic
payments - and the person or persons by whom checks shall be signed,
with the power to change banks and the person or persons signing checks
and the form thereof at will.

  

## **Section 7**

### **Agreements with Members**

The Board of Directors shall have the power to carry out all agreements
of the Cooperative with its Members in every way advantageous to the
Cooperative representing the Members collectively.

  

## **Section 8**

### **Nepotism**

No immediate relative of any Director shall be regularly employed by the
Cooperative unless approved in writing by a vote of a simple majority of
disinterested Directors. Immediate relative is defined as father,
mother, brother, sister, spouse, common law domestic partner, son,
daughter, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law.

  

  

  

# Article V **Duties of Board Officers**

  

## **Section 1**

### **Duties of the President**

The President shall (a) preside over all meetings of the Cooperative and
of the Board of Directors, (b) call special meetings of the Board of
Directors, (c) perform all acts and duties usually performed by a
presiding officer, and (d) sign such instruments of the Cooperative as
he/she/it may be authorized or directed to sign by the Board of
Directors; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may authorize
any person to sign any or all checks, contracts and other instruments in
writing in behalf of the Cooperative. The President shall perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.

  

## **Section 2**

### **Duties of the Vice President(s)**

If so elected by the Board pursuant to Article III, Section 4 hereof, in
the absence or disability of the President, the Vice President(s) shall
perform the duties of the President. The Vice President(s) shall perform
such other duties as may be required by the Board of Directors. If such
officer(s) has not been elected by the Board, then the foregoing duties
shall be the responsibility of the President.

  

## **Section 3**

### **Duties of the Secretary**

If so elected by the Board pursuant to Article III, Section 4 hereof,
the Secretary shall keep a complete record of all meetings of the
Cooperative and of the Board of Directors and shall have general charge
and supervision of the corporate records of the Cooperative. He or she
shall serve all notices required by law and by these Bylaws and shall
make a full report of all matters and business pertaining to the office
and to the Members at the annual meeting. The copies of the Board or
membership minutes, and complete membership records shall be maintained
at the principal office of the Cooperative. The Secretary shall make
corporate reports required by law and shall perform such other duties as
may be required of the position by the Cooperative or by the Board of
Directors. If such officer has not been elected by the Board, then the
foregoing duties shall be the responsibility of the President.

  

## **Section 4**

### **Duties of the Treasurer**

If so elected by the Board pursuant to Article III, Section 4 hereof,
the Treasurer shall have supervision of the Cooperative's financial
records and perform such duties with respect to the finances of the
Cooperative as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors. Upon the
election of his or her successor, the Treasurer shall turn over all
books and other property belonging to the Cooperative in his or her
possession. If such officer has not been elected by the Board, then the
foregoing duties shall be the responsibility of the President.

  

  

  

# Article VI **Management**

  

## **Section 1**

### **Duties in General**

Under the direction of the Board of Directors, if so employed, the
Manager shall have general charge of the ordinary and usual business
operations of the Cooperative. The Manager shall, so far as practicable,
endeavor to conduct the business in such a manner that the Members will
receive just and fair treatment. The Manager shall cause all money
belonging to the Cooperative to be deposited in a bank or invested in a
manner selected by the Board of Directors and, if authorized to do so by
the Board of Directors, shall make all disbursements by check or
withdrawal therefrom for the ordinary and necessary expenses of the
business in the manner and form prescribed by the Board of Directors.
Upon the appointment of his or her successor, the Manager shall deliver
all money and property belonging to the Cooperative which in his or her
possession or control.

  

## **Section 2**

### **Duties of Manager to Account**

The Manager shall be required to maintain Cooperative records and
accounts in such a manner that the true and correct condition of the
business may be ascertained therefrom at any time. Monthly and annual
statements shall be prepared in the form and in the manner prescribed by
the Board of Directors. All books, documents, correspondence, and
records of whatever kind pertaining to the business which may come into
his or her possession shall be carefully preserved.

  

## **Section 3**

### **Duties of Manager Concerning Partners**

The Manager shall have the authority to employ, supervise, and terminate
all partners of the Cooperative and fix their compensation subject to
the policies and at salaries within ranges adopted by the Board of
Directors not inconsistent with these Bylaws. Partners shall be under
the direct supervision of the President. Auditors, agents, or counsel
specifically employed by the Board of Directors shall be under the
supervision of the Board of Directors and not under the President.

  

  

  

# Article VII **Capital**

  

## **Section 1**

### **Definitions**

“Net Profits” and “Net Losses” means for each taxable year of the
Cooperative an amount equal to the Cooperative’s net taxable income or
loss for such year as determined for federal income tax purposes
(including separately stated items) in accordance with the accounting
method and rules used by the Cooperative and in accordance with Section
703 of the Code, subject to the following provisions:

  - any item of income, gain, loss, or deduction allocated to Members
    under this Article VII shall not be taken into account in computing
    Net Profits or Net Losses;
  - any income of the Cooperative that is exempt from federal income tax
    and is not otherwise taken into account in computing Net Profits and
    Net Losses under this definition shall be added to such net taxable
    income or loss;
  - any expenditure of the Cooperative described in Section 705(a)(2)(B)
    of the Code and not otherwise taken into account in computing Net
    Profits and Net Losses shall be subtracted from such net taxable
    income or loss;
  - gain or loss resulting from the disposition of an asset with respect
    to which gain or loss is recognized for federal income tax purposes
    shall be computed with reference to the Gross Asset Value of the
    asset, notwithstanding that the adjusted tax basis of the asset
    differs from its Gross Asset Value;
  - in lieu of the Depreciation (as hereinafter defined), amortization,
    and other cost recovery deductions taken into account in computing
    such taxable income or loss, there shall be taken into account, in
    computing Net Profits or Net Losses, Depreciation for such fiscal
    year; and
  - to the extent an adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of an asset
    under Section 734(b) of the Code or Section 743(b) of the Code is
    required under Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(4) of the Treasury
    Regulations to be taken into account in determining member Capital
    Accounts as a result of a distribution other than in liquidation or
    redemption of a membership equity interest, the amount of such
    adjustment shall be treated as an item of gain (if the adjustment
    decreases the basis of the asset) from the disposition of the asset
    and shall be taken into account for purposes of computing Net
    Profits or Net Losses.

“Patronage Activity” shall mean the aggregate value of the Cooperative’s
goods and services contributed to or purchased by each Council Member
during the applicable fiscal period. Patronage Activity may be
contributed by Council Members in their capacity as a subcontractor, an
independent contractor, a partner or as a strategic partner. The Board
shall have the authority to develop, review and revise the methodology
by which to calculate the Cooperative’s aggregate Patronage Activity and
each member’s respective allocable unit of Patronage Activity. Each
member’s allocable unit of the Cooperative’s Net Profits and Net Losses
shall be made according to each member’s respective Patronage Activity.

“Depreciation” means, with respect to each asset, for each fiscal year;
an amount equal to the depreciation, amortization, or other cost
recovery deduction allowable with respect to the asset for such fiscal
year; provided, however, that, if the Gross Asset Value of the asset
differs from its adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes at the
beginning of such fiscal year, Depreciation shall be an amount that
bears the same ratio to such beginning Gross Asset Value as the federal
income tax depreciation, amortization, or other cost recovery deduction
for such fiscal year bears to such beginning adjusted tax basis; and
provided, further, that, if the adjusted basis for federal income tax
purposes of an asset at the beginning of such fiscal year is zero,
Depreciation shall be determined with reference to such beginning Gross
Asset Value using any reasonable method selected by the Board.

“Gross Asset Value” means, with respect to any asset, the asset’s
adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes, except as follows:

  - the initial Gross Asset Value for any asset (other than money)
    contributed by a Member to the Cooperative shall be its gross fair
    market value as determined by the Board and the contributing Member;
  - the Gross Asset Value of all Cooperative assets shall be adjusted to
    equal their respective gross fair market values, as determined by
    the Board as of the following times: (1) the liquidation of the
    Cooperative for federal income tax purposes pursuant to Regulations
    Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g); or (2) upon the occurrence of any
    other event provided in Regulations (including the issuance by the
    Cooperative of a “noncompensatory option” within the meaning of
    Regulations Sections 1.721-2(f) and 1.761-3(a) (other than for a de
    minimis equity interest and which is not treated as a membership
    interest under Regulations Section 1.761-3(a) or common law));
    provided, however, that such adjustments resulting from events
    described in clauses (1), (2), (3), and (5) shall be made only if
    the Board reasonably determines that such adjustments are necessary
    or appropriate to reflect the relative economic interests of the
    Members in the Cooperative. If any noncompensatory options are
    outstanding upon the occurrence of an event described in this
    subsection (ii), the Cooperative shall adjust the Gross Asset Values
    of Cooperative assets in accordance with Regulations Section
    1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(h)(2).
  - the Gross Asset Value of any Cooperative asset distributed to any
    Member shall be adjusted to equal its gross fair market value on the
    date of distribution;
  - the Gross Asset Value of the Cooperative’s assets shall be increased
    (or decreased) to reflect any adjustments to the adjusted basis of
    such assets pursuant to Code Section 734(b) or Code Section 743(b),
    but only to the extent that such adjustments are taken into account
    in determining Capital Accounts pursuant to Regulations Section
    1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m) and Section A2(i) hereof; provided, however,
    that Gross Asset Values shall not be adjusted pursuant to this
    subsection (iv) to the extent that an adjustment pursuant to
    subsection (ii) of this definition is necessary or appropriate in
    connection with a transaction that would otherwise result in an
    adjustment pursuant to this subsection (iv); and
  - if the Gross Asset Value of an asset has been determined or adjusted
    pursuant to subsection (i), (ii) or (iv) above, such Gross Asset
    Value shall thereafter be adjusted by the Depreciation taken into
    account from time to time with respect to such asset for purposes of
    computing Profits and Losses.

  

## **Section 2**

### **Capital Accounts**

A separate member Capital Account shall be maintained for each Member.
Each member’s Capital Account shall be: (i) credited with the member’s
initial capital contribution made via the purchase one or more units of
the Cooperative’s Class A and/or Class B Units and the Member’s
distributive unit of all income and gain, including patronage-based
distributions (including any income exempt from federal income tax); and
(ii) charged with the amount of all distributions to such member and the
member’s distributive unit of losses and deductions. Capital Accounts
shall be maintained in accordance with federal income tax accounting
principles as set forth in Treas. Reg. § 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) or any
successor provision. Section 752(c) of the Code shall be applied in
determining the amount of any liabilities taken into account for
purposes of this definition of “Capital Account.”

  

## **Section 3**

### **Allocation of Income and Loss**

Net Profits of the Cooperative for any fiscal period shall be allocated
among the members, (i) first, to offset prior allocations of Net Loss,
in the reverse order and priority of such allocations of Net Loss, (ii)
second, to the Council Members on the basis of their patronage of the
Cooperative; (iii) third, to the Investor-Members as a percentage of
each Investor-Member’s Internal Capital Account balance, as or when
determined by the Board in its sole discretion; and (iv) the remainder,
if any, as allocated in the discretion of the Board.

Net Loss of the Cooperative for any fiscal period shall be allocated to
all Council Members pro rata in accordance with their respective
Patronage Activity with the Cooperative during the applicable fiscal
period. In the event a member has Patronage Activity for a partial year,
Net Profit or Net Loss shall also be pro-rated in accordance with the
time period such member was a member in good standing and generated
Patronage Activity in the Cooperative.

  

## **Section 4**

### **Limitation on Losses**

Notwithstanding the foregoing, no allocation or distribution pursuant to
this Article VII shall be made to the extent it would cause or increase
a negative balance in any member’s Capital Account.

  

## **Section 5**

### **Distributions**

**(a) Guaranteed Payment Distributions**

To the extent available from the Cooperative’s then-current cash flow,
as determined by a resolution of the Board adopted in accordance with
these Bylaws, on a periodic basis as determined by a resolution of the
Board adopted in accordance with these Bylaws, the Cooperative shall
distribute to the applicable Member an amount of cash (a “Guaranteed
Payment Distribution”) equal to such compensation payable in connection
with such Member’s performance of his, her, or its service obligations
on behalf of the Cooperative, as determined from time to time in
accordance with a written agreement and these Bylaws. Guaranteed Payment
Distributions shall be deemed to be “guaranteed payments” pursuant to
Section 707(c) of the Code and shall reduce income or increase loss, as
applicable, otherwise allocable to Members.

**(b) Distribution of Cash from Operations (“Patronage Distributions”)**

Distributions of cash from operations of the Cooperative shall be made
each calendar year, to the Council Members pro- rata in accordance with
their respective Patronage Activity with the Cooperative. Any such
distribution shall be made at the time and in the amounts determined by
the Board to be appropriate in light of the cash needs of the
Cooperative; provided, however, that the members intend, but do not
require, that the Board will cause the Cooperative to distribute cash to
the members at least annually in an amount sufficient to meet the tax
liability of each Member in relation to the taxable income of the
Cooperative allocated to each such Member.

**(c) Distribution on Class B Units**

In accordance these Bylaws and applicable law, outstanding Class B Units
shall be eligible to receive a target, non-cumulative distributions at a
target rate of five percent (5%), calculated based upon the original
purchase price paid for such units. Dividends on Class B Units may be
declared solely at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The
intention shall be that the aggregate amount of the Patronage
Distribution for all Council Membership classes in a given period shall
never be less than the aggregate amount available or declared for
distribution on Class B Units. Likewise, the intention shall be that the
aggregate amount available or declared for distribution on the Class B
Units shall never be less than twenty-five (25%) percent of the
aggregate amount of the patronage allocation for all Council Membership
classes.

**(d) Distributions Upon Sale or Refinancing**

Net proceeds from the sale or refinancing of any property of the
Cooperative, after payment of all expenses of sale or refinancing, and
in the case of a sale after payment of all other debts and obligations
of the Cooperative, shall be distributed (except as provided for in
Article 8 upon liquidation of the Cooperative) as follows:

  - First, to creditors of the Cooperative (including any Members that
    also are creditors), to the extent of any amounts then due and
    payable, or as determined by the Board to be appropriate for the
    Cooperative’s business; and then
  - Second, to the Council Members pro-rata in accordance with their
    respective Patronage Activity averaged over the immediately prior
    3-year period, to the extent that have not previously been repaid
    pursuant to this Section 5(b); and
  - Finally, to all Council and Investor-Members pro-rata in accordance
    with their pro-rata aggregate Internal Capital Account balance.

  

## **Section 6**

### **Special Allocations**

The following special allocations shall be made for any fiscal year of
the Cooperative in the following order:

**(a) Minimum Gain Chargeback**

If there is a net decrease in “partnership minimum gain” as defined in
Treasury Reg. §§ 1.704-2(b)(2) and 1.704-2(d) during any Cooperative
fiscal year, each Member shall be specially allocated items of
Cooperative income and gain for such year (and, if necessary, subsequent
years) in an amount equal to such Member’s unit of such net decrease,
determined in accordance with Treasury Reg. §§ 1.704-2(f) and
1.704-2(g)(2). The items to be so allocated, and the manner in which
those items are to be allocated among the Members, shall be determined
in accordance with Treasury Reg. §§ 1.704-2(f) and 1.704-2(j)(2). This
Section 6(a) is intended to satisfy the minimum gain chargeback
requirement in Treasury Reg. § 1.704-2(f) and shall be interpreted and
applied accordingly.

**(b) Member Minimum Gain Chargeback**

If there is a net decrease in “partner nonrecourse debt minimum gain” as
defined in Treasury Reg. § 1.704-2(i) during any Cooperative fiscal
year, each Member who has a unit of such gain, determined in accordance
with Treasury Reg. § 1.704-2(i)(5), shall be specially allocated items
of Cooperative income and gain for such year (and, if necessary,
subsequent years) in an amount equal to such Member’s unit of such
decrease, determined in accordance with Treasury Reg. §§ 1.704-2(i)(4)
and 1.704-2(i)(5). The items to be so allocated, and the manner in which
those items are to be allocated among the Members, shall be determined
in accordance with Treasury Reg. §§ 1.704-2(h)(4) and 1.704-2(j)(2).
This Section 6(b) is intended to satisfy the minimum gain chargeback
requirement in Treasury Reg. § 1.704-2(i)(4) and shall be interpreted
and applied accordingly.

**(c) Qualified Income Offset**

In the event that any Member unexpectedly receives any adjustments,
allocations, or distributions described in Treasury Reg. §§
1.704-l(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) or (6), items of Cooperative income and
gain shall be specially allocated to such Member in an amount and in a
manner sufficient to eliminate as quickly as possible, to the extent
required by Treasury Reg. § 1.704-(1)(b)(2)(ii)(d), the deficit balance,
if any, in such Member’s Capital Account as of the end of the taxable
year (which shall be determined as if all other allocations provided for
in this Article 6 have been tentatively made, and as if this Section
6(c) were not in this Agreement), after giving effect to the following
adjustments:

  - Credit to such Capital Account any amount that such Member is
    obligated to restore to the Cooperative under Treasury Reg.
    1.704-l(b)(2)(ii)(c), as well as any addition thereto pursuant to
    the next to last sentences of Treasury Reg. 1.704-2(g)(l) and
    (i)(5); and
  - Debit to such Capital Account the items described in Treasury Reg.
    1.704-l(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) and (6).

This Section 6(c) is intended to comply with the provisions of Treasury
Reg. 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) and 1.704-2, and will be interpreted
consistently with those provisions.

  

## **Section 7**

### **Corrective Allocations**

The allocations set forth in this Article are intended to comply with
certain regulatory requirements under Code Section 704(b). The Members
intend that, to the extent possible, all allocations made pursuant to
such Sections will, over the term of the Cooperative, be offset either
with other allocations pursuant to this Article VII or with special
allocations of other items of Cooperative income, gain, loss, or
deduction pursuant to this Article VII. Accordingly, the Board is hereby
authorized and directed to make offsetting allocations of Cooperative
income, gain, loss, or deduction under this Article VII in whatever
manner the Board determines is appropriate so that, after such
offsetting special allocations are made, the Capital Accounts of the
Members are, to the extent possible, equal to the Capital Accounts each
would have if the provisions of Section 6 were not contained in this
Agreement and all income, gain, loss and deduction of the Cooperative
were instead allocated pursuant to this Article VII.

  

## **Section 8**

### **Mandatory Tax Allocations Under Code Section 704(c)**

Except as specifically set forth in this Section 8, allocations of
taxable income and loss shall be made in the same manner as allocations
for Capital Account purposes. In accordance with Code Section 704(c) and
Treasury Reg. § 1.704-3, income, gain, loss and deduction with respect
to any property contributed to the capital of the Cooperative shall,
solely for tax purposes, be allocated among the Members so as to take
account of any variation between the adjusted basis of such property to
the Cooperative for federal income tax purposes and its initial book
value determined by the Board. Allocations pursuant to this Article VII
are solely for purposes of federal, state, and local taxes and shall not
affect, or in any way be taken into account in computing, any Member’s
Capital Account or unit of Net Profit, Net Loss, or other items as
computed for book purposes, or distributions pursuant to any provision
of this Agreement.

  

## **Section 9**

### **Lien**

To secure the payment of all indebtedness of any Member to this
Cooperative, this Cooperative shall have perfected security interest and
a first lien on the capital investments, net margins, and other property
rights and interests, if any, in the Cooperative of such Member. As one
means of enforcing its lien, the Cooperative shall be entitled to offset
at any time, at the sole discretion of the Board of Directors, any debt
of a Member to the Cooperative with a corresponding amount of the
Member's capital investments, net margins and other property rights and
interests, if any, in the Cooperative. Each Member, by joining and
patronizing the Cooperative, shall be deemed to have agreed to sign any
instrument necessary to evidence and perfect the lien and security
interest provided for in this Section.

  

## **Section 10**

### **No Offsets**

No Member qualified to unit in allocations of Cooperative's Net Profits
shall be entitled to demand offset of any portion of such person's
allocated unit of Net Profit retained by the Cooperative against any
indebtedness or claim due the Cooperative from such person.

  

## **Section 11**

### **Equity Redemption**

**(a)** No acquisition, recall, distribution or redemption of equity
capital in the Cooperative shall be made, required or effected, if the
result of it would be to render the Cooperative unable to pay its debts
as they become due in the usual course of business or causes the
remaining assets of the Cooperative to be less than its liabilities plus
the amount necessary to satisfy the interests of the holders of
securities or other equity capital preferential to those receiving the
distribution if the Cooperative were to be dissolved at the time of the
distribution. Provided that the financial condition of the Cooperative
will not be impaired, the Board of Directors in its sole discretion and
subject to the approval of the Cooperative's secured creditors having
the right to approve equity redemptions or retirements, and the
application of the Uniform Limited Cooperative Association Act, may, but
shall not be obligated to, authorize the redemption of any equity
capital in the Cooperative at any time when a Member owning equity
capital in the Cooperative shall (i) die, (ii) if a non-natural person,
liquidate its business affairs and intend to dissolve, (iii) cease
patronizing the Cooperative or using the Cooperative's services for a
period of five (5) consecutive years, (iv) withdraw or be terminated
from the Cooperative as provided in these Bylaws, or (v) for other
reasons as provided in an equity retirement policy adopted by the Board
of Directors. Each class of equity capital and all persons in each of
the above classifications shall be treated similarly with their
respective class or classification. The Board of Directors may, in its
discretion, issue to the Member interest bearing certificates of
indebtedness in substitution and exchange for the equity capital of a
Member, which may be subject to redemption.

**(b)** If (i) payments to persons entitled to repayment under an equity
retirement policy developed by the Board of Directors under the
immediately preceding paragraph (a) shall have been made or adequate
provision made therefor, (ii) the Cooperative has obtained the approval
of the Cooperative's secured creditors, and (iii) the Board of Directors
shall have determined the total amount of Members' investments in equity
capital shall exceed the amount reasonably needed by the Cooperative,
the Board may at its discretion retire a percentage of the equity
capital in the Cooperative which the Board has determined is not needed.
The percentage shall be paid to every holder of equity capital equitably
among all on the same percentage basis of their total investments in
equity capital regardless of when such investment was made, except that
no equity capital shall be repaid under this plan until said Member
shall have invested at least $20 in equity capital.

**(c)** When a Member separates from the Cooperative, whether through
voluntary withdrawal, expulsion or death, the Cooperative shall redeem
the Member's capital account pursuant to policies adopted by the Board
of Directors, which policies may be revised from time to time in the
sole discretion of the Board of Directors.

**(d)** No Member entitled to an allocation of the Cooperative's Net
Profit shall have any right or interest at any time in or to any reserve
fund, or surplus accounts, if any, except upon dissolution of the
Cooperative when any such reserve fund, or surplus account shall be
distributed in accordance with these Bylaws, as otherwise provided by
law or as the Directors may otherwise determine.

**(e)** In connection with or in addition to the foregoing, the Board of
Directors may establish policies and practices for the redemption of
equity capital based upon the recognition of difference in the character
and liquidity of assets held by the Cooperative and the resulting impact
on availability of funds for equity redemption.

  

## **Section 6**

### **Borrowed Capital**

This Cooperative may borrow such additional capital from Members or any
other person or source as permitted by law. It may issue notes or
certificates of indebtedness for amounts of borrowed money with such
terms and conditions and on which it may pay an interest rate as
determined by the Board of Directors.

  

## **Section 7**

### **Commingling of Capital and No Interest**

Investments in equity capital need not be segregated from, and may be
invested in, or commingled with, any other assets of the Cooperative.
Unless provided otherwise in these Bylaws, no allocation, interest, or
any other income shall be declared or paid on account of any capital
unit or other equity capital in the Cooperative owned by a member or
other investor.

  

  

  

# Article VIII **Dissolution, Liquidation, Cooperative Sale, Winding Up**

  

## **Section 1**

Upon the dissolution, liquidation, sale of the Cooperative, or sale of
all or substantially all of the Cooperative’s assets, all debts and
liabilities of the Cooperative shall first be paid according to their
respective priorities, as defined by law or by agreement. Any property
or proceeds remaining after discharging the debts and liabilities
(including due and payable Guaranteed Payment Distributions) of the
Cooperative shall be distributed to the Council Members and
Investor-Members in the Cooperative's equity capital in accordance with
the following priorities to the extent funds are available therefor,
payments within each priority to be made on a pro-rata, pari passu basis
without regard to time of investment:

  - First, on a pro-rata basis to Members, to the extent of the then
    current Capital Account balance; and then
  - Second, fifty (50%) percent of remaining proceeds to all past and
    current Council Members pro-rata in accordance with their respective
    share of the aggregate Patronage Activity since the commencement of
    the Cooperative’s business as a limited cooperative association; and
    then
  - Finally, residual proceeds to a fund or charitable organization, the
    purpose and mission of which is to advance the Cooperative business
    model, as selected in the sole discretion of the Board or the
    trustee appointed to dispose of the Cooperative’s assets.

  

## **Section 2**

If, in winding up of the affairs of the Cooperative, certain assets are
not liquid, have no market value, creditors having claim on these assets
have been satisfied and the trustees in liquidation or other persons
charged with winding up the Cooperative's affairs have determined that
the costs involved in delaying the winding up of the affairs of the
Cooperative exceed the potential benefits, the trustees are authorized
to assign the assets or any future proceeds from assets that are not
liquid to any local or statewide nonprofit organization that has as one
of its principal purposes the advancement of cooperatives, education or
community service. The trustees shall under no circumstances be liable
to any other member or equity holder in the Cooperative for any claim on
any assets assigned by the trustees pursuant to the authority of this
Article.

  

  

  

# Article IX **Unclaimed Money**

  

A claim made against the Cooperative for money shall be subject to the
provisions of this Article IX whenever the Cooperative is ready, able,
and willing to pay the claim, and has paid or is paying generally claims
arising under similar circumstances, but payment of the claim cannot be
made for the reason that the Cooperative does not know the whereabouts
or mailing address of the one to whom it is payable or the one entitled
to payment. If the claim is not actually paid within a period of three
(3) years after notification as herein provided, the Cooperative shall
remove the claim as a liability on its books. No removal shall be made
unless the Cooperative shall have sent by first class, United States
mail, a written notice of eligibility for payment addressed to the
person appearing on the Cooperative's records to be entitled to payment
at the last address of such person shown by the records of the
Cooperative. If not claimed within three (3) years after giving of
notice, the claim shall be deemed extinguished. Any and all amounts
recovered by the Cooperative pursuant to this Article IX, after
deducting therefrom the amount of any taxes payable thereon, shall be
placed in a reserve or surplus account established previously or
hereafter by the Cooperative.

  

  

  

# Article X **Dispute Resolution, Governing Law, Venue, Jurisdiction, and Jury Trial Waiver**

  

A Dispute Resolution Committee shall be authorized and constituted by
these Bylaws. It shall be comprised of five (5) members, and appointed
by the Board of Directors from among the membership (the “Dispute
Resolution Committee”). The Board shall strive to appoint members to the
Dispute Resolution Committee to be representative of each membership
class. The members of the Dispute Resolution Committee shall be selected
and appointed based upon possessing special training, experience or
skill with respect to alternative dispute resolution. The members of the
Dispute Resolution Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Directors, however, no member of the Dispute Resolution Committee shall
be removed on account of or as a pretext for reprisal or retaliation for
good faith service on the Committee or bona fide recommendation of a
decision against a Member or the Cooperative if supported by proper
evidence and founded rationale.

In the event of a dispute between Members, or a Member and the
Cooperative, concerning any matter arising out of the relationship or
transactions between Members or the Member and the Cooperative, which
cannot be resolved through direct, amicable, frank, open and honest
communication, upon request of either party, the matter shall be set for
mediation, to be conducted by a single member of the Dispute Resolution
Committee, selected by the mutual agreement of the disputing parties. If
the parties to a dispute are unable to agree with respect to the
selection of a mediator, the Dispute Resolution Committee shall select a
mediator from among the Committee.

If mediation is incapable of resolving the dispute, upon request of
either party and ten (10) days' prior notice to the Member concerned,
the matter shall be set for hearing before a three (3) person panel of
the Dispute Resolution Committee, which shall hear the same, and shall
enter written findings and make a recommendation to the full five (5)
member banc of the Dispute Resolution Committee. The decision of the
full banc of the Dispute Resolution Committee in such cases shall be
final; provided, however, that either party having received a decision
may fifteen (15) days thereafter bring an appeal to the Board of
Directors, which may rely upon the facts found by the Dispute Resolution
Committee or which may enter its own findings of fact if the Board
judges, in its sole discretion, that the findings of fact were
erroneous, invalid or inadequate. The decision by the Board of
Directors, shall, in case of appeal, be final and binding upon the
parties. Any member affected by the final ruling rendered in the
dispute, who shall thereafter refuse to acquiesce or abide by the
ruling, shall thereafter be subject to termination of membership in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of Article I of these
Bylaws. With respect to a Member’s dispute with the Cooperative, to the
extent direct communication and mediation are incapable of resolving the
dispute and the matter requires a decision by the Board or is appealed
to a court of proper jurisdiction, and further to the extent that the
Cooperative prevails, the Member shall be obligated to pay all
attorneys’ fees and costs associated with the claim.

As a matter of last resort, in the event that each and all prior
attempts at dispute resolution, as required by these Bylaws, may fail to
resolve the dispute, the party aggrieved by the final decision of the
Board of Directors may, within sixty (60) days thereafter, bring
appropriate action in any court of proper jurisdiction regarding such
matter or transaction. These Bylaws shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the laws of the State of Colorado including all
matters of construction, validity and performance. Members and the
Cooperative agree that any action or proceeding commenced under or with
respect to these Bylaws shall be brought only in the district courts of
the County of Boulder, State of Colorado, and the parties irrevocably
consent to the jurisdiction of such courts and waive any right to alter
or change venue, including by removal. EACH MEMBER AND THE COOPERATIVE
WAIVE ITS RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY SUIT, CLAIM, CAUSE
OF ACTION, OR OTHER ACTION TO ENFORCE ANY TERM OR CONDITION OF THESE
BYLAWS OR OTHERWISE ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THESE BYLAWS.

  

  

  

# Article XI **Fiscal Year**

  

The fiscal year of this Cooperative shall commence on January 1 each
year and shall end on the following December 31.

  

  

  

# Article XII **Amendments**

  

Amendments to these Bylaws shall be proposed and recommended by
two-thirds (67%) of the Board of Directors, and thereafter ratified by a
simple majority vote of Council Members. If upon presentment of a
petition presented to the Secretary and signed by twenty five (25%)
percent of the Council Members, the amendment to these Bylaws shall
become effective by a two-thirds (67%) vote of Council Members. If
notice of the character of the amendment proposed has been given in the
notice of a meeting, these Bylaws may be altered or amended at any
regular or special meeting of the Council Members by the affirmative
vote of a simple majority of the Council Members present, or voting by
mail or email, provided the Council Members so voting have received the
exact wording of the amendments.

  

  

  

# Article XIII **Merger, Consolidation, or Unit or Equity Capital Exchange**

  

## **Section 1**

### **Board and Council Member Approval of Merger, Consolidation, or Unit or Equity Capital Exchange**

Except as otherwise provided in Section 2 of this Article XIII, if the
Cooperative is a party to a plan of merger, consolidation, or unit or
equity capital exchange, such plan shall first be approved by a
two-thirds vote (67%) of all the members of the Board of Directors and
then approved by a two-thirds (67%) vote of the Council Members present
and voting in person or voting by mail or email, if voting by mail or
email has been authorized by a majority of the Board of Directors. The
provisions of Article VIII shall apply to any proceeds which may result
from such merger, consolidation, or unit or equity capital exchange.

  

## **Section 2**

### **Merger of Cooperative Subsidiary**

The Board of Directors may approve, in its discretion, by an affirmative
two-thirds (67%) vote and without further membership approval or
consent, a plan of merger of a subsidiary of the Cooperative into the
Cooperative if the Cooperative owns one hundred percent (100%) of the
voting units, memberships, or interests in the subsidiary and the
Cooperative has the right to vote on behalf of the subsidiary; except,
that if, as a result of the merger, the voting units, memberships or
other interests of the members of the Cooperative would be materially
altered, then the members shall have the right to vote on the plan of
merger in a manner consistent with the provisions of Section 1 of this
Article XIII.

  

  

  

# Article XIV **Distribution of Bylaws**

  

After adoption of these Bylaws or an amendment, a copy of these Bylaws
or the amendment, as the case may be, shall be provided to each Member
and other person qualified to unit in the Cooperative's net margins and
to each person who later becomes a Member or person qualified to unit in
the Cooperative's net margins as shown on the books of record of the
Cooperative.

  

  

  

# Article XV **Right to Information and Confidentiality**

  

The Cooperative shall maintain in record available at its principal
office such information as is required by law. The Cooperative may
maintain additional information in record, but shall not be required to
make the same available unless required by law. The Cooperative strives
to balance the privacy interest of its Members with the right to access
information by the same. The Cooperative shall entertain requests for
information by Members and former Members in accordance with applicable
law. A Member or former Member making a valid request for information
under this section and subject to applicable law, shall be solely
responsible for paying or reimbursing the Cooperative for the reasonable
costs associated with copying documents, including and limited to the
cost of equipment, labor, and materials.

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Members and former
Members shall at all times maintain in strict confidence and promise to
not disclose any person or entity not otherwise entitled to receive such
information any and all information received by or through the
Cooperative, pertaining to the records of the Cooperative, its Members,
and the operations, activities or transactions of the same. Each Member
and former Member, whether receiving information consequent to a valid
request for information under this section, or through its activities
with or through the Cooperative, shall further ensure that any
information transmitted or communicated to an attorney or other agent of
such Member, shall be kept in confidence to the same degree and extent
as the Member or former Member is or would be bound by this section. All
membership information, fee schedules, financial information,
correspondence and all other Cooperative documents and information
furnished to the Member by the Cooperative will be kept in strict
confidence.
