## Dojo4 Deep Dive Services Agreement

  

This Agreement is made between the “Client”, \_\_\_\_\_\_ and the
“Contractor”, dojo4 LLC.

  

### Scope of Services & Development Schedule

  

This exercise in discovery and productive investigation will occur on
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, starting at \_\_am/pm and ending around\_\_am/pm, and
again on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, starting at\_\_am/pm and ending
around\_\_am/pm, at dojo4.

  

  

The scope of this investigation and its deliverables are outlined by the
following description:

  

\> discovery and deep-level viability exploration of the Client’s
project, starting with an introductory discussion

\> documentation of the discovered necessary features for a minimally
viable / marketable product delivered within a week of the second
session

\> first pass at the technological architecture of the product delivered
upon end of meeting

  

### Rate and Payment

  

The rate: $\_\_\_\_\_ includes both sessions and all resulting
documentation.

*Important:* This project is billed as a flat fee. The Contractor will
invoice the Client for this service on the Monday following the second
session. All invoices will be payable upon receipt.

  

*Ownership of Work Product*

dojo4 agrees that all work product will be the sole and exclusive
property of the Client. Except for dojo4’s Intellectual Property Rights
in the background technology, dojo4 irrevocably and unconditionally
assigns to the Client all right, title, and interest worldwide in and to
the work product. dojo4 understands and agrees that dojo4 has no right
to use the work product except as necessary to perform the services for
the Client.

  

*Limitation of dojo4’s Liability to the Client*

In no event shall dojo4 be liable to the Client for lost profits of the
Client, or special or consequential damages, even if dojo4 has been
advised of the possibility of such damages.

*Dojo4 is an Independent Contractor*

dojo4 is an independent contractor, not an employee of the the Client.
This means that dojo4 has the right to perform services for others
during the term of this Agreement, that dojo4 can perform services at
any location, that dojo4 will provide its own equipment to perform work,
that the Client will not withhold from dojo4‘s compensation any amount
that would normally be withheld from an employee’s pay, that the Client
will not provide insurance of any kind for dojo4, and that the Client
will not provide training to the dojo4.
