**Generosity** as a core component of our business here at Dojo4.

What does that mean, in practical terms? As we know, generosity is the
inclination to give without any expectation of return, to be open-handed
and hearted, to be unselfish, unstingy, broadminded and inviting. As a
company, that can look a lot of different ways. Here are some examples:

  - **Generosity with employees** - We aim to [pay
    more](https://dojo4.com/blog/bigger-paychecks-better-impact), and
    offer substantive benefits. Our company is structured to support
    an [option to
    ownership](http://dojo4.com/blog/on-the-lip-of-shared-ownership-dojo4-becomes-a-co-op-series-number-1).
    And we
    prioritize [transparency](https://bthechange.com/4-companies-share-their-paths-to-great-governance-16fa1de6d3d5).
  - **Generosity with customers** - We offer them more than they expect
    and allow them into our process.
  - **Generosity
    with **[**competitors**](https://little-startup-handbook.dojo4.com/embrace-the-competition/) -
    We go out of our way to share business and market tips. And we send
    over customers that are better suited to them. We see other
    companies in the same market as opportunities to collaborate.
  - **Generosity
    with **[**community**](https://little-startup-handbook.dojo4.com/call-on-community/) -
    It's integral to who we are to contribute to the local culture and
    society with time, money, space, events, volunteers, etc.
  - **Generosity with self** - Maybe most importantly, we encourage each
    other to prioritize the
    health, [sanity](https://little-startup-handbook.dojo4.com/make-sanity-number-1/) and
    [wellbeing of ourselves](http://antidoteto.tech) and the internal
    operations of our company. [We believe it's possible and important
    to meet ourselves where we
    are](https://dojo4.com/blog/grief-as-an-entrepreneurial-asset).

These expressions of generosity may simply seem like the right thing to
do. No doubt that's true, but they also provide a real and meaningful
advantage in navigating the business landscape. While generosity doesn't
expect anything in return, it does generate a [wheel of
wealth](https://little-startup-handbook.dojo4.com/be-generous/) in the
form of "what comes around, go around." And this cycle provides both
measurable and untold value. Because it's a differentiator and indicator
of integrity, generosity attracts both good employees and good clients.
In that way generosity reliably contributes to organizational longevity
and sustained profits.

These profits may be financial or represent other kinds of capital. For
instance, practicing generosity may generate value reflected in some or
all of these ways:

  - the strength and wealth of the local economy,
  - the number of families and individuals that are supported by the
    business,
  - the degree of cultural vibrancy that is supported by the business,
  - the intellectual, technical, environmental or social innovation and
    advancement cultivated by the business,
  - the goodwill and social capital generated by the business.

Generosity can take a lot of different forms and look a lot of different
ways, but it's a one-size-fits-all method for us all to give our
business a strategic advantage. Magnanimity will boosts Dojo4 by:

  - attracting and retaining other stellar employees,
  - cultivating collaborative partnerships and knowledge-building with
    competitors,
  - magnetizing and preserving lasting relationships with clients and
    customers,
  - supporting internal and personal resilience,
  - inviting [various expressions of
    capitalization](https://socapglobal.com/2019/11/valuation-in-8-categories-a-broader-picture-of-your-companys-capital/)
    and value.

No matter how much or how little it may feel there is to go around,
there is always some way to give. There is no downside to creating
wealth in that way. And, in any case, regardless of the benefits
associated with generosity, cultivating it as a core tenant of Dojo4
inevitably [increases
happiness](https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms15964). We can't go
wrong with that.

<https://little-startup-handbook.dojo4.com/be-generous/>

![](https://d2eslrut6bvw18.cloudfront.net/v2/39196/contents/jcSEHy3rMWNKQw5O/mw1920_be-generous.jpg)
