### **Daily Status**

Please post your status every morning in Slack by beginning your message
with ".status". This is meant to act as a status report / mini-standup
so that each person gets a general sense of what everyone else is doing
that day and what the basic structure of their schedule is for the day.
You’ll get a sense of the content and style by seeing other people’s
status messages. It is important that everyone writes in a status
message early-ish in the day: it allows us to avoid having to have
unnecessary meetings, micromanagement, and allows us to help each other
with one another’s work load.

### **Email**

Every contractor and member is given a Dojo4 email address. Please use
this address for internal and client correspondence. That said, we
endeavor to keep our inboxes as empty as possible by using other, more
transparent, tools such as Redmine and Slack.

### **Slack**

See [Slack](./slack.md). Dojo4 uses Slack to communicate with each other throughout
the day. Please be sure to be in Slack during working hours and whenever
you are doing Dojo4 work. Please use Slack for dojo4 communications
throughout the day. 

  - be aware of threads and use those to streamline communication
  - easily monitor Redmine activity streaming into Slack
  - easily monitor commits through Github streaming into Slack
  - some email streams can be monitored here, too

### **Redmine**

See [Redmine](./redmine.md).

  

### **Face-to-Face**

This is the only form of communication we use at Dojo4 that does not
support asynchronistic communication. Allowing people to choose when and
how they communicate is a benefit of asynchronistic communication, such
as chat, email, and ticketing systems, however there is no substitute
for face-to-face communication, when that is what is required. If your
other forms of communication are not working or seem to be causing
confusion, misunderstanding and/or frustration, please drop everything
and have a real conversation instead. Often problems are most
effectively addressed by simply having a face-to-face conversation. Good
rules of thumb for when to talk face-to-face:

  - when the other person is not responding to other forms of
    communication
  - when there are emotions involved
  - when addressing a difficult subject matter

If you have a face-to-face conversation about something that is relevant
to others at Dojo4, please document the outcome in a ticket.
