*Also see all Dojo4 legal agreements here:*
[*https://github.com/dojo4/policy/*](https://github.com/dojo4/policy/)*.
And in the Dojo4 Concord account at concordnow.com.*

## Dojo4 Iterative Engagement Agreement

This Engagement Agreement (the “Engagement Agreement”) between
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (“Client”) and Dojo4, lca (“Dojo4”) sets forth a
description of the Services referenced in the Services Agreement dated
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (the “Services Agreement”) between the parties and by
this reference incorporates herein the terms and conditions set forth in
the Services Agreement. This Engagement Agreement constitutes an
independent, separate and enforceable agreement between the parties. In
the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions set forth in
this Engagement Agreement and those set forth in the Services Agreement,
the terms and conditions set forth herein shall govern. Unless otherwise
defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings
corresponding thereto as set forth in the Services Agreement.

 

**All parties enter this agreement with a spirit of friendly
collaboration, an intention to work diligently and move together toward
excellent outcomes.**

** **

### **Nature of Engagement Nature of Engagement**

 

The Client engages with Dojo4 for the following general
activities/deliverables:

 

Authorized work product in the form of general technology consulting;
technology and interface design and development; mentorship and
training; and other similar services requested or required in the course
of providing these services to Client.

 

### **Schedule of Delivery Schedule of Delivery**

 

Dojo4 shall perform the Services and deliver any deliverables and/or
work product related thereto in accordance with the following schedule:

 

  - as mutually determined in writing as part of the development process
    in connection with each specific request for Services and/or
    Deliverables
  - process to authorize work shall take the following form:
      - requests for Services and/or Deliverables are made by Client
        through tickets in Dojo4's project management system (Redmine)
      - Dojo4 responds to each new request with an estimate of time
        and/or budget needed to accomplish and records that estimate in
        the ticket for that request
      - Client approves that estimate in writing in that ticket
      - only upon approval of each estimate, Dojo4 begins work on each
        new request for Services and/or Deliverables

 

Client acknowledges and understands that the Services will be performed
by Dojo4 on a “time and materials” basis and that the foregoing
estimates are merely an educated guess on the part of Dojo4. Dojo4 will
work in good faith to meet the estimates and schedule, however if a
estimate needs to be revised, Dojo4 will seek approval for that revision
before moving forward with work. Client acknowledges and understands
that it shall be obligated to pay the Fees that accrue hereunder even if
the Fees exceed the estimate set forth herein or the Services are not
performed strictly in accordance with the estimate for the milestones
and timeline set forth herein. Dojo4 makes no representations or
warranties regarding of any kind regarding the estimates.

 

### **Rate And Terms of Payment Rate And Terms of Payment**

 

1.  **Rate.** In consideration of Dojo4’s performance of the Services,
    Client shall pay to Dojo4 professional services fees at the hourly
    (prorated for partial hours rounded to the nearest quarter hour)
    rate (the “Fees”) of $175 per hour per person.
2.  **Payment schedule, interest.** At Dojo4 we use weekly invoices as a
    quick turn-around of an accounting of hours. Sending an accounting
    of hours every week, and having that kind of visibility and
    approval, gives us assurance that we're heading in a direction that
    our clients feel good about. As such, Client shall pay to Dojo4 the
    Fees as follows:

On a weekly basis, Dojo4 shall deliver to Client an invoice reflecting
the aggregate Fees accrued at the applicable rate(s) specified in
Section 1 above during the preceding calendar week. Client shall pay
invoices reflecting Fees accrued at the rate specified in Section 1
above upon receipt, however these terms are flexible to "Net 14 Days"
terms. Invoices that are not paid within 14 calendar days will incur a
2.25% finance charge compounding every 14 day overdue period.

 

In Witness Whereof, the parties have executed this Engagement Letter.
