This Independent dojo4 Services Agreement (the “Agreement”) is entered
into as of ​​ (the “Effective Date”) between **​​** (“Client”) and

**Dojo4, LCA**, a Colorado limited cooperative association (“Dojo4”).

This is Client’s and Dojo4’s Services Agreement. Client agrees to read
it and understand it, and Client won't just sign it. It contains details
about the relationship between Client and Dojo4.

**All parties enter this agreement with a spirit of friendly
collaboration, an intention to work diligently and move together toward
excellent outcomes.**

**1. Engagement**

**1.1. Definitions**. Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms
used herein shall have the meanings corresponding thereto as set forth
in Section 10 below.

**1.2. Performance of Services**. From time to time during the term of
this Agreement, the parties will enter into one or more Statements of
Work or Engagement Agreements (collectively, the "Engagement
Agreements") pursuant to which Dojo4 will perform the Services specified
therein. Each Engagement Agreement will incorporate by reference the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and will be an
independent, separate and enforceable agreement between the parties. In
the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement and those set forth in any Engagement Agreement, the
terms and conditions set forth in such Engagement Agreement shall
govern. Dojo4 will perform the Services in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement and the applicable Engagement Agreement. Dojo4 will have
exclusive control over the manner and means of performing the Services,
and will use its expertise and creative talents in performing the
Services. Dojo4 will provide, at its own expense, a place of work and
all equipment, tools, and other materials necessary to complete the
Engagement Agreement. Client acknowledges and agrees that as part of
Dojo4’s normal business, Dojo4 may hire or otherwise engage one or more
subcontractors to contribute to the performance of any Services that are
contemplated herein.

**1.3. Change Proposals**. Upon the receipt of a proposal from Client to
change the terms of a Engagement Agreement (a “Change Proposal”), Dojo4
will promptly (a) provide any information requested in such Change
Proposal, and (b) evaluate such Change Proposal to determine the
feasibility, impact on the specifications, milestones and the cost and
expenses related to implementing the modifications described in the
Change Proposal. If Client elects to authorize the modifications set
forth such Change Proposal, the parties shall enter into a written
amendment to the Engagement Agreement reflecting the same, including
without limitation, any increase or decrease to the Fees. If the Change
Proposal and/or proposed written amendment is rejected by either party
for any reason, either party may terminate the applicable Engagement
Agreement and/or this Agreement pursuant to Section 8. In no event will
any Engagement Agreement be deemed to be amended or otherwise modified
except in accordance with this Section 1.3.

**1.4. Competitive Engagements**. Client acknowledges that during the
term of this Agreement, Dojo4 may perform, or agree to perform, any
services that are similar to the Services for any third party that
directly or indirectly competes with Client.

**1.5. Independent Contractor Relationship**. Dojo4’s relation to Client
under this Agreement is that of an independent contractor. Nothing in
this Agreement is intended to, or should be construed to create a
partnership, joint venture, or employer-employee relationship between
Client and Dojo4. Dojo4 is not the agent of Client and is not
authorized, and must not represent to any third party that it is
authorized, to make any commitment or otherwise act on behalf of
Client. 

**2. Compensation**

**2.1. Fees**. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
Client will pay Dojo4 the Fees specified in each Engagement Agreement in
accordance with the payment terms set forth therein (“Rate and Terms of
Payment”) as Dojo4’s compensation for the Services Dojo4 performs and
Work Product Dojo4 delivers to Client related to each such Engagement
Agreement. In addition to the Fees, Client will reimburse Dojo4 for all
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Dojo4 in connection with its
performance of the Services (the “Expenses”) provided that Client has
approved such Expenses in advance. If applicable, the Engagement
Agreement will include an estimate of the Fees and Expenses Dojo4
anticipates in connection with the Services.

**2.2. Responsibility for Momentum**. Responsibility for the swift and
constant momentum of work specified in each Engagement Agreement is the
responsibility of both Dojo4 and Client. Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, Client will be responsible for providing
information, data or any other relevant input requested of Client by
Dojo4 to maintain the momentum of work specified in each Engagement
Agreement. If Client is unwilling or unable to provide material
responses to reasonable requests made by Dojo4 to maintain the momentum
of the work, Dojo4 reserves the right to invoice Client for work time
lost due to non-receipt of material response in support of the momentum
of the work. Dojo4 will not invoice more than $500 for every full day
elapsed from the time of the second request for material response is
made to Client by Dojo4, which will be paid to Dojo4 by Client, subject
to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

**3. Confidentiality**

**3.1. Use and Disclosure**. During the term of this Agreement and at
all times thereafter, each party will (a) hold all Confidential
Information of the other in strict trust and confidence and shall use
the same only as permitted under this Agreement or any Engagement
Agreement. Each party will protect the Confidential Information of the
other party from unauthorized use, access, or disclosure with no less
than reasonable care. 

**4. Deliverables**

**4.1. Ownership of Deliverables**<span class="underline">.</span> When
Dojo4 receives full payment of all Fees and other amounts due in
connection with the Deliverables, Dojo4 will irrevocably and
unconditionally assign to the Client all right, title, and interest
worldwide in and to the Deliverables. In addition, Dojo4 hereby grants
to Client a perpetual, royalty-free, non-transferable, non-exclusive,
limited license to use solely in connection with Client’s use of the
Deliverables the Dojo4 IP that is integrated into or otherwise becomes
part of the Deliverables. 

**4.2. Dojo4 use of Deliverables**. Subject to the confidentiality
obligations set forth elsewhere herein, Client and Dojo4 agree that
Dojo4 may use the Deliverables (including the completed project and any
preliminary designs) for purposes including and similar to design
competitions, future publications on design, educational purposes and
the marketing of Dojo4’s business.

**4.3. Acceptance of Deliverables.  **If Client does not deliver written
notice to Dojo4 within five (5) days after Dojo4’s delivery of the
Deliverables to Client that the Deliverables do not substantially
conform to the specifications set forth in the applicable Engagement
Agreement, Client shall be deemed to have accepted such Deliverables. In
the event Client delivers written notice within such 5-day period,
thereafter for a period of thirty (30) days, the parties shall work in
good faith to resolve any differences they may have regarding whether
the Deliverables substantially conform to the applicable
specifications.   

**4.4 Dojo4 IP**. 

(a) Client acknowledges and agrees that (i) Dojo4 shall retain all
ownership and other rights in and to the Dojo4 IP notwithstanding that
any such Dojo4 IP may become known to Client in connection with any
Engagement Agreement or is integrated into or otherwise becomes a part
of any of the Deliverables; (ii) Client shall have no ownership interest
or title in or to Dojo4 IP; and (iii) Dojo4 shall be free to use any of
the Dojo4 IP in connection with performing services or producing
deliverables for any third parties so long as it complies with its
confidentiality obligations set forth elsewhere herein.

(b) Client shall not (i) modify, create derivative works from,
reverse-engineer, decompile, disassemble or otherwise translate Dojo4 IP
in any manner; (ii) disclose or distribute copies of Dojo4 IP or any
portion thereof to third parties except as permitted by the applicable
Engagement Agreement; (iii) reproduce the Dojo4 IP or any portion
thereof in any form or medium, except as permitted by the applicable
Engagement Agreement; (iv) use the Dojo4 IP for any purpose not
specifically authorized by the applicable Engagement Agreement or this
Agreement; or (v) remove any copyright notices, trademarks or other
proprietary legends appearing on or in the Dojo4 IP.

*note: In summary, Dojo4 may want to select abstract parts of work
performed to make open source when it makes sense, but will not make any
part of any work performed for the Client open source without their
permission. A significant amount of Dojo4 projects, including work for
hire, contain components of previously open sourced work.*

**5. Dojo4 and Client Representations and Warranties**

**5.1. General**. Dojo4 and Client each represents, warrants, and
covenants that:

(a) it has full right, power, and authority to enter into and perform
this Agreement without the consent of any third party, including the
right to grant all licenses granted by Dojo4 in this Agreement;

(b) it will comply with all laws, regulations, and ordinances applicable
to Dojo4’s performance of the Services and its other obligations under
this Agreement, including export control laws, and has obtained (or
before performing the Services will obtain) all governmental permits and
licenses required for Dojo4 to perform the Services and its other
obligations under this Agreement.

**5.2. Performance**. Dojo4 shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
ensure that the Deliverables will fully conform to the specifications,
requirements, and other terms in the applicable Engagement Agreement and
this Agreement. The Deliverables will be delivered to Client on an “as
is” basis, without any warranties or representations express, implied or
statutory; including, without limitation, warranties of quality,
performance, non-infringement, merchantability or fitness for a
particular purpose. Nor are there any warranties created by a course of
dealing, course of performance or trade usage. Dojo4 does not warrant
that any software comprising the Deliverables will meet the Client’s
needs or be free from errors, or that the operation of the Deliverables
will be uninterrupted. The foregoing exclusions and disclaimers are an
essential part of the agreement between Client and Dojo4 and form the
basis for determining the price charged for the Services and/or
Deliverables. Dojo4 expressly disclaims any other representations or
warranties.

**5.3. Limitation of Liability and Damages**. Neither party shall be
liable to the other for punitive, special, consequential, incidental, or
indirect damages of any kind or nature whether such liability is
asserted on the basis of contract, tort or otherwise, including without
limitation, lost profits, or loss or damage to data arising out of the
use or inability to use the Services or Deliverables, even if such party
has been advised of the possibility of such damages. Client acknowledges
that Dojo4’s aggregate liability to Client relating to or arising out of
any Engagement Agreement, whether such liability is asserted on the
basis of contract, tort or otherwise, shall not exceed the aggregate
Fees and other amounts paid by Client to Dojo4 in connection with such
Engagement Agreement.

**6. Indemnification**

Dojo4 and Client will each indemnify and hold harmless the other and its
affiliates, employees, and agents from and against any and all
liabilities, losses, damages, costs, and other expenses (including
attorneys’ and expert witnesses’ costs and fees) arising from or
relating to any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant, or
obligation in this Agreement or any intentional misconduct or negligence
or any of its employees, agents in performing the Services. 

**7. Solicitation**

Client acknowledges that Dojo4 has invested substantial time, effort,
and financial resources in attracting, training, and retaining both
excellent employees and independent contractors. Accordingly, Client
agrees not to directly or indirectly solicit, induce, or attempt to
induce Dojo4 employees to accept full-time or part-time employment with
Client or Client's affiliates, subsidiaries, and associates. Independent
contractors may choose to work for whomever they please, however if
Client directly or indirectly retains the services (whether as an
employee, independent contractor or otherwise) of such a contractor who
is retained by Dojo4 at the time of solicitation by Client, Client
agrees that Dojo4 will be damaged, but that the amount of this damage
will be difficult to determine. Accordingly, Client agrees that Client
will not solicit such a contractor without verbal agreement from Dojo4.
In the event that a Dojo4 employee is hired by Client, Client agrees to
pay Dojo4 a recruiting fee of 50% of the individual's current annual
salary. This fee is due upon employee's commencement of employment with
Client.

**8. Termination**

**8.1 Termination by Client**. Client may terminate this Agreement
and/or any Engagement Agreement at any time with or without cause for
its convenience, effective upon ten (10) days prior written notice to
Dojo4. In addition, Client may terminate this Agreement or any
Engagement Agreement immediately upon written notice to Dojo4 if Dojo4
breaches this Agreement or the Engagement Agreement, as the case may be,
and does not cure the breach to Client’s reasonable satisfaction within
five (5) business days after Client gives notice of the breach to Dojo4.

**8.2 Termination by Dojo4**. Dojo4 may terminate this Agreement and/or
any Engagement Agreement at any time with or without cause for its
convenience, effective upon ten (10) days prior written notice to
Client. In addition, Dojo4 may terminate this Agreement or any
Engagement Agreement immediately upon written notice to Client if Client
fails to pay an amount owed to Dojo4 under this Agreement or the
Engagement Agreement, as the case may be, when due and does not make the
payment within five (5) business days after Dojo4 gives notice of the
breach to Client. 

**8.3 Effects of Termination **

(a) Survival. Termination or expiration of this Agreement will not
affect either party’s liability for any breach of this Agreement it may
have committed before such expiration or termination.

(b) Return of Client Property. Upon termination of this Agreement or
earlier as requested by Client, Dojo4 will deliver to Client any and all
documents, prototypes, samples, and other materials in Dojo4’s
possession or control (including all copies thereof) containing or
disclosing any Work Product (in whatever stage of development or
completion) or any Intellectual Property provided by or on behalf of
Client.

(c) Compensation. Upon termination of this Agreement, Client will pay
Dojo4 all amounts due on a proportional basis as set forth in the
applicable Engagement Agreement for Services that are then in-progress,
as of the effective date of such termination and reimburse Dojo4 for
related Expenses incurred by Dojo4 before the effective date of such
termination.

(d) Ownership of Deliverables. In the event of the termination of any
Engagement Agreement prior to Client’s payment in full of all Fees and
other amounts due thereunder, Dojo4 shall be entitled to terminate
Client’s license of the Dojo4 IP and rights to use the Deliverables. In
addition, the copyright(s) and all other rights of ownership related to
the Deliverables or any portion thereof completed but not accepted by
Customer as of the effective date of any termination shall vest in Dojo4
and it shall be free to use the same in any manner so long as it
complies with its confidentiality obligations set forth elsewhere
herein.

**9. General Provisions**

**9.1 Governing Law; Venue**. This Agreement is governed by the laws of
the State of Colorado without reference to any conflict of laws
principles that would require the application of the laws of any other
jurisdiction. Dojo4 irrevocably consents to the personal jurisdiction of
the state located in Boulder County, Colorado for any suit or action
arising from or related to this Agreement, and waives any right Dojo4
may have to object to the venue of such courts. 

**9.2 Severability**. If any provision of this Agreement is, for any
reason, held to be invalid or unenforceable, the other provisions of
this Agreement will be unimpaired and the invalid or unenforceable
provision will be deemed modified so that it is valid and enforceable to
the maximum extent permitted by law.

**9.3 Assignment**. This Agreement and all the rights and obligations
under this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
the parties and their respective successors and assigns. This Agreement
may not be assigned, delegated, or otherwise transferred, in whole or in
part, by operation of law or otherwise, by either party without prior
written consent of the other party, except that Dojo4 shall not require
Client’s prior written consent to assign its rights, interests or
obligations hereunder or in any Engagement Agreement in connection with
any sale of substantially all of Dojo4’s assets or any merger of Dojo4
with any other entity.. Any attempted assignment, delegation, or
transfer in violation of the foregoing will be null and void. 

**9.4 Notices**. Each party must deliver all notices, consents, and
approvals required or permitted under this Agreement in writing to the
other party at the address listed on the signature page, by courier, by
certified or registered mail (postage prepaid and return receipt
requested), or by a nationally-recognized overnight carrier. Notice will
be effective upon receipt or refusal of delivery. Each party may change
its address for receipt of notice by giving notice of such change to the
other party.

**9.5 Legal Fees**. The prevailing party in any litigation between the
parties relating to this Agreement will be entitled to recover its
reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs, in addition to any other
relief that it may be awarded.

**9.6 Remedies**. Client’s and Dojo4’s remedies for any breach of this
Agreement will include damages, injunctive relief, specific performance,
and restitution. The rights and remedies provided to each party in this
Agreement are cumulative and in addition to any other rights and
remedies available to such party at law or in equity. Client agrees that
in no event shall Dojo4 be liable to the Client for lost profits of the
Client, or special or consequential damages, even if Dojo4 has been
advised of the possibility of such damages.

**9.7 Construction**. Section headings are included in this Agreement
merely for convenience of reference; they are not to be considered part
of this Agreement or used in the interpretation of this Agreement. In
the event of any conflict between this Agreement and a Engagement
Agreement, this Agreement will control unless the Engagement Agreement
expressly refers to the parties’ intent to alter the terms of this
Agreement with respect to that Engagement Agreement.

**9.8 Waiver**. All waivers must be in writing and signed by the party
to be charged. Any waiver or failure to enforce any provision of this
Agreement on one occasion will not be deemed a waiver of any other
provision or of such provision on any other occasion.

**9.9 Time Is of the Essence**. Time is of the essence in the
performance of the Services and Dojo4’s other obligations under this
Agreement.

**9.10 Entire Agreement; Amendments**. This Agreement is the final,
complete, and exclusive agreement of the parties with respect to the
subject matter hereof and supersedes and merges all prior communications
and understandings between the parties. No modification of or amendment
to this Agreement will be effective unless in writing and signed by the
party to be charged.

**10. Definitions **

As used in this Agreement:

(a) “Confidential Information”means information related to either
party’s business that is clearly labeled as “confidential” or
“proprietary” by such party and that such party treats as confidential
or proprietary or such party has a duty to treat as
confidential. Confidential Information does not include any information
that, (a) the receiving party knew prior to the disclosing party’s first
disclosure to the receiving party, (b) a third party discloses to the
receiving party, or (c) is, or through no fault of the receiving party
has become, generally available to the public. 

(b) “Deliverables” means the items, work product and/or information to
be provided or actually provided by Dojo4 to Client under this
Agreement.

(c) “Dojo4 IP” means all algorithms, application programming interfaces,
apparatus concepts, Dojo4 Confidential Information, data, databases and
data collections, designs, diagrams, documentation, drawings, flow
charts, formulae, ideas and inventions, know-how, materials, marketing
and development plans, marks (including brand names, product names,
logos, and slogans), methods, models, net lists, network configurations
and architectures, procedures, processes, protocols, schematics,
software code (in any form including source code and executable or
object code), specifications, subroutines, techniques, test vectors,
tools, uniform resource identifiers including uniform resource locaters,
user interfaces, web sites, works of authorship, and other forms of
technology that exist prior to the date of this Agreement and/or the
applicable Engagement Agreement or that is created, invented or
otherwise developed by Dojo4 in the course of performing the Services
and/or producing the Deliverables.

(d) “Services”means the services to be performed by Dojo4 in connection
with any Engagement Agreement as specified therein.

**In Witness Whereof,the parties have executed this Agreement.**
