*Also see all Dojo4 Co-op legal documents here:*
[*https://github.com/dojo4/policy/tree/master/co-op*](https://github.com/dojo4/policy/tree/master/co-op)
*and in the Dojo4 Concord account at concordnow.com.*

# Dojo4 LCA **Council Member and Membership Agreement**

  

THIS COUNCIL MEMBER MEMBERSHIP AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is made
effective \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 201\_, (the “Effective
Date”) by and among dojo4, LCA, a Colorado cooperative having its
principal place of business at 2030 17th Street, Boulder, CO 80302 (the
"Cooperative") and \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, whose address
is\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(“Council Member”), agree to be bound at all times by the Bylaws of
the Cooperative, under which it is hereby agreed as follows:

  

  

  

# **Recitals**

Council Member meets all eligibility requirements of and has satisfied
all conditions to becoming a Council Member pursuant to the Bylaws

As of the Effective Date, on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Council Member has
applied for and been admitted by the Board of Directors of the
Cooperative to become a member pursuant to the Cooperative’s Bylaws,
which have been duly adopted and as may be amended or restated from time
to time by the members (the “Bylaws”);

Council Member and the Cooperative are party to a services agreement
dated \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, whereby Council Member has
agreed to render services to the Cooperative or to the Cooperative’s
members and the Cooperative has accepted the rendering of such services;
and

Council Member will be issued one Class A Unit subject to the terms and
conditions set forth in the Bylaws.

In consideration of the execution of this Agreement, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

  

  

  

# Article I **Member Agreements**

The Operating Council Member agrees to the following:

  

## **1. Class A Unit**

Council Member agrees to subscribe and pay for one (1) Class A Unit of
the Cooperative as follows:

  - one (1) Class A Unit of the Cooperative at a price of $6,000.00,
    issued in the name of the Council Member (the “Class A Unit”);
  - (b) to make payment of the total price for the above Class A Unit
    either \[CIRCLE ONE\] \<\<(i) in immediately available funds\>\>, or
    \<\<(ii) by paying $\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ in immediately available
    funds and by agreeing to periodic equal installments of
    $\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ per month for \_\_ consecutive months,
    deducted from payments made pursuant to a subcontractor or services
    agreement, if applicable, or by check, ACH, or such other means as
    may be approved by the Cooperative, which installment payments shall
    be due and payable as of the first business day of each calendar
    month following execution of this Agreement.

  

## **2. Patronizing Cooperative**

Subject to Section 2 hereof, Council Member shall be deemed to patronize
the Cooperative by rendering or contributing services to the Cooperative
or clients of the Cooperative according to a written services agreement
between the Cooperative and a member, either as a partner, independent
contractor, subcontractor, consultant, strategic partner or any other
lawful means pursuant to a written agreement;

The Cooperative’s Board of Directors shall, pursuant to its powers under
the Bylaws, determine the precise methodology by which Council Member’s
patronage shall be calculated and allocated. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, each increment of 10-hours contributed
shall be credited with one (1) patronage unit (“Patronage Units”).
Patronage Units may be accrued for billable work performed for clients
of the Cooperative, as well as for general value-add time contributed to
the Cooperative. Unless otherwise set forth in writing, the
determination of whether certain activity is eligible for Patronage
Units shall be made in the discretion of the Managers.

  

## **6. Confidential Information**

Without limiting the generality of the confidentiality provision
contained in Article XV of the Bylaws, all information relating to
membership, fees, financial performance or projections, products or
services, trade secrets, correspondence and all other Cooperative
documents and information furnished to the Council Member by the
Cooperative will be kept in strict confidence, and upon termination of
the membership privileges in the Cooperative Council Member shall
immediately return to the Cooperative or its agent all such documents
which had been provided by the Cooperative to Council Member.

  

## **7. Bylaws**

Council Member has received a copy of the Bylaws of the Cooperative, and
Council Member promises and agrees that s/he shall comply with all
provisions of said Bylaws, as amended from time to time, which apply in
any way to any of the relationships between the Council Member and the
Cooperative, and will further comply with all policies, rules and
regulations adopted from time to time by the Board of Directors of the
Cooperative which apply to any of said relationships, and that the Units
of capital stock of the Cooperative hereby subscribed for by the Council
Member will be held by the Council Member subject to all of the
provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and the Bylaws of the
Cooperative and all amendments and supplements thereto, and to all
applicable provisions of this Agreement.

  

## **8. Patronage Allocations**

Council Member specifically acknowledges receipt of a copy of Article I,
Section 5 of the Bylaws of the Cooperative entitled "Consent to Tax
Treatment" and of the provisions therein contained which provide, among
other things, that a member of the Cooperative, by the act of becoming
or continuing as a member, consents that the amount of any allocation
received by the Council Member from the Cooperative in the form of a
Schedule K-1 will be taken into account by the Council Member for
federal income tax purposes. This provision is not intended to limit the
generality of Article I, Section 5 of the Bylaws.

  

## **9. Lien**

As provided for in Article VII, Section 9 of the Cooperative's Bylaws,
and without limiting the generality of the same, the Cooperative, to the
extent of any indebtedness owing at any time to the Cooperative by
Council Member, will have a first lien upon and a right of set-off
against all Units and any patronage allocations which accrue for the
account of or become distributable from time to time to the Council
Member.

  

## **10. Governance & Committees**

Council Member agrees to take part in cooperative governance by availing
him/her/itself to vote on matters for which Council Members are eligible
to vote, and to volunteer and serve on Committees, as may be made
available from time to time by the Board of Directors, and applicable.

  

## **11. Code of Conduct**

Council Member recognizes the unique and important position s/he/it
holds as a Council Member of the Cooperative and will: strive to
maintain and support the mission of the Cooperative and its surrounding
community; carry and represent her/him/itself and the Cooperative with
fairness and respect, both within and external to the community; and
adhere to the Cooperative’s rules, guidelines, policies and code of
conduct, as applicable.

  

## **13. Withdrawal**

Council Member has read and expressly acknowledges Article I, Section 3
of the Cooperative’s Bylaws and further acknowledges: (i) the
Cooperative requires substantial working capital to satisfy the cash
demands of the Cooperative’s business (including direct investments in
real property and improvements thereupon); (ii) redemption of all or
part of Council Member’s original capital contribution is at the sole
discretion of the board and should be considered at-risk for delayed or
partial redemption, or no redemption at all in certain circumstances.

  

## **14. Organizational Documents**

Council Member has a received a copy of and understands the
Cooperative’s Articles of Organization and Bylaws and has had access
to, and an opportunity to inspect, all relevant information and
documents relating to the Cooperative. Council Member has also had the
opportunity to ask questions of the Board and of the officers of the
Cooperative and has received satisfactory answers thereto, and has
obtained such additional information as Council Member has desired to
obtain regarding the Cooperative.

  

## **Service Obligations of Council Members**

(a) Each Council Member shall, for so long as associated with the
Cooperative, agrees to perform such services on behalf of the
Cooperative as set forth in any employment agreement or independent
contractor agreement between the Cooperative and such Member as
applicable (the “Service Obligations”).

The Council Member recognizes and acknowledges that all intellectual
property work product related to the business of the Cooperative (the
“Cooperative’s Business”) that each Council Member conceives, creates,
develops or reduces to practice, in whole or part in connection with the
performance of their respective Service Obligations or conceived,
created, developed or reduced to practice in whole or in part in
connection with the Cooperative’s Business prior to the date of this
Agreement, including all “works of original authorship,” inventions,
improvements, enhancements, designs, ideas, formula, processes,
techniques, discoveries, or know-how related to the Cooperative’s
Business, whether or not patentable or copyrightable (the “Cooperative
Intellectual Property”), are “works for hire”. The Council Member
acknowledges and agrees that the Cooperative Intellectual Property shall
become and remain the sole and exclusive property of the Cooperative and
the Cooperative shall be the sole owner of all patents, copyrights and
other rights in connection therewith throughout the world (collectively,
“Cooperative Proprietary Rights”).

On the date of this Agreement, each Council Member shall complete and
deliver to the Cooperative a reasonably detailed list of all “works of
original authorship” and all source code, software, content, inventions,
improvements, enhancements, designs, ideas, formula, processes,
techniques, discoveries or know-how that such Council Member conceived,
created, developed or reduced to practice prior to the formation of the
Cooperative and that are owned either by such Council Member or his or
her former employer or an unrelated third party (collectively, the
“Other Intellectual Property”). This list can simply be in the form of
some github URLs and any other references, as appropriate. Each Council
Member and the Cooperative may amend such list from time to time to
reflect a description of other “works of original authorship” and all
source code, software, content, inventions, improvements, enhancements,
designs, ideas, formula, processes, techniques, discoveries or know-how
that such Council Member may conceive, create, develop or reduce to
practice after the date of this Agreement, but outside the scope of
their respective Service Obligations. If no such list is delivered to
the Cooperative, such Council Member represents and warrants to the
Cooperative that there is no Other Intellectual Property. Each Council
Member acknowledges and agrees that he or she shall not, without the
prior written consent of the Cooperative: (i) use or incorporate any
Other Intellectual Property into any work product of any type he or she
develops on behalf of the Cooperative; or (ii) use or incorporate any
Cooperative Intellectual Property into any work product of any type he
or she develops outside of the scope of their respective Service
Obligations, including without limitation, into any Other Intellectual
Property. In the event a Council Member incorporates any Other
Intellectual Property owned by such Council Member into any work product
of any type he or she develops on behalf of the Cooperative, he or she
shall be deemed to have granted the Cooperative a royalty-free,
irrevocable, perpetual, worldwide license to use and modify such Other
Intellectual Property in connection with the development, marketing,
sale and distribution of the Cooperative’s products and services.

Each Council Member and their respective Member shall assign all of his,
her or its rights, title and interest in and to any and all Cooperative
Intellectual Property and Cooperative Proprietary Rights to the
Cooperative, whether or not patentable or registrable under copyright or
similar statutes. Each Council Member and their respective Member hereby
waives and forever discharges any moral rights and claims for
infringement, misappropriation, breach of contract or other cause of
action he or she may have against the Cooperative arising from the
Cooperative’s use of all Cooperative Intellectual Property and
Cooperative Proprietary Rights.

Upon the Cooperative’s reasonable request and expense, each Council
Member shall assist the Cooperative in obtaining and enforcing
Cooperative Proprietary Rights. Each Council Member shall execute and
deliver such documents and take such additional actions as the
Cooperative may reasonably request and at its expense in connection with
the Cooperative’s efforts to obtain, perfect, maintain and enforce such
Cooperative Proprietary Rights and the assignment thereof. Each Council
Member’s obligation to assist the Cooperative with respect to
Cooperative Proprietary Rights shall survive the sale, assignment,
liquidation, or other divestment of the Membership Interest of the
Member associated with such Council Member, provided that the
Cooperative shall reimburse such Council Member for any direct
out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred in connection with rendering
such assistance.

In the event that any Council Member has entered into a separate
agreement that governs the performance of his or her Service Obligations
and the terms and conditions applicable thereto and there is a conflict
between the terms and conditions set forth in such separate agreement
and the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 15, the Council
Member acknowledge and agree that the Cooperative shall be entitled to
determine, in its sole discretion, whether to enforce the obligations of
such Council Member, under any such other agreements or both.

## **Other Business Transactions with the Cooperative**

Each Council Member or any other entity in which such Council Member is
an owner, stockholder, member, officer, director, employee, agent or
representative may transact business with the Cooperative from time to
time to provide professional and other services, materials, inventory,
goods and/or deliverables for the benefit of the Cooperative, including
entering into any licensing, professional services or similar agreements
between the Cooperative and such Member.

## **Other Activities of Members**

So long as each Council Member continues to fully comply with and
perform his or her Service Obligations and subject to applicable duties
Council Member owes to the Cooperative, as defined in the Bylaws, such
Council Member may, without notice to or consent from any other Council
Member or the Cooperative, engage and invest in other business ventures
of any nature. Neither the Cooperative nor any other Member or Council
Member shall by virtue of this Agreement have any right or interest in
such other ventures or the income or profits derived therefrom.

## **Covenants not to Compete or Solicit**

Each Council Member agrees that he or she is an officer or executive of
the Cooperative (as such term is used in § 8-2-113(2)(d) of the Colorado
Revised Statutes) and possesses or will possess knowledge, skills and
reputation in the Cooperative’s Business that are of material importance
to the Cooperative, and that are special, unique and extraordinary. Each
Council Member agrees that the Cooperative’s loss of his or her
services, or a competitor of the Cooperative’s receipt of his or her
services, may result in the unauthorized disclosure of Confidential
Information and may cause irreparable harm to the Cooperative.
Therefore, in order to protect the Confidential Information and prevent
unfair competition by the Cooperative’s competitors, each Council Member
agrees that for the period commencing on the date of this Agreement and
expiring upon the six (6) month anniversary of the effective date of the
redemption, sale or other transfer of the Unit associated with such
Council Member (the “Restricted Period”), such Member shall not, without
prior written agreement, within the geographic territory (defined by a
100 mile radius around the Cooperative’s primary location) served by the
Cooperative, do any of the following:

  - participate or engage in any activities that compete or conflict
    with the Cooperative during the Restricted Period;
  - canvass, solicit, or accept, or aid or assist any other person or
    entity in any effort to canvass, solicit or accept, any business in
    competition with the Cooperative from any present or past customer
    of the Cooperative;
  - directly or indirectly request or advise any past, present or
    potential future customer of the Cooperative to withdraw, curtail,
    cancel, or not engage in business with the Cooperative;
  - breach any confidentiality agreement that Cooperative has with any
    of its past or present customers; or
  - suggest, solicit, or encourage any employee of the Cooperative to
    leave their employment with the Cooperative or any other Council
    Member, consultant, independent contractor or other party to
    terminate their relationship or contracts with the Cooperative; or
  - disparage the Cooperative or it conditions of employment.

## **Equitable Relief**

Council Member acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions set forth
in Sections 18 above are reasonable and necessary to protect the
legitimate interests of the Cooperative, and that such Council Member’s
violation or default in the performance of his, her or its obligations
as set forth in Sections 18 above will result in irreparable injury to
the Cooperative. Each Council Member also acknowledges and agrees that
the Cooperative shall be entitled to specific performance of the terms
and conditions set forth in Sections 18 above and to preliminary and
permanent injunctive relief relating to such provisions, which rights
shall be cumulative and in addition to any other rights or remedies to
which the Cooperative may be entitled. The Cooperative shall not be
required to post a bond or to show special damages in any proceeding
seeking any such equitable relief.

  

  

  

# Article II **Cooperative Agreements**

  

## 1\. The Cooperative agrees to provide the following services and benefits to Council Member:

  - Fractional and indivisible ownership of the Cooperative;
  - Voting rights as part of the Cooperative’s governance model;
  - Patronage Units to be allocated in proportion to the Council
    Member’s patronage with, through and of the Cooperative’s products
    and services;
  - The Cooperative further agrees to promote the Cooperative’s products
    and services and those transacted as a result of or derivative from
    membership in the Cooperative, whether in whole or in part, or
    whether directly or indirectly arising from Cooperative membership.

  

## **2. Patronage Allocations**

In accordance with the applicable provisions of the Cooperative's Bylaws
and any then effective policy or plan established by the Board of
Directors of the Cooperative with respect to the distribution and
calculation of patronage dividends, the Cooperative will allocate to its
Council Members as patronage dividends, the proportionate Unit of the
net earnings allocable to the Council Member.

  

  

  

# Article III **Restrictions**

Council Member shall not make, attempt to make or permit a disposition
of any Units owned now or in the future unless in compliance with the
terms and conditions of this Agreement. No disposition of any Units
shall be effective (a) unless made in compliance with this Agreement and
(b) unless and until a proposed transferee (except the Cooperative)
shall be accepted by the Board of Directors pursuant to the
Cooperative's Bylaws.

It shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of Units to any person
by the Cooperative that the person shall agree to be bound by the terms
and conditions of the Cooperative's Bylaws and this Agreement by a
written instrument. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Units are issued
to or received by any person without the person having agreed in writing
to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement, upon receipt
and retention of the Units, the person shall automatically become a
party to this Agreement and shall be subject to all the terms and
conditions of this Agreement whether or not the person has acknowledged
and signed this Agreement or accepted its terms and conditions by a
written instrument.

The Cooperative shall not, nor shall it be required to, transfer, issue
or reissue any of the Units in violation of this Agreement or without
proof of compliance with this Agreement.

The restrictions, terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in
effect as to all Units owned now or in the future by a Council Member,
whether or not acquired or disposed of in accordance with this Agreement
and whether or not the Units are in the hands of an original Council
Member or a subsequent owner (including the estate of a Council Member),
regardless of how or when acquired. No acquisition or disposition of
Units shall in any way enlarge or limit any rights or obligations under
this Agreement.

The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to any person who
receives capital interest units of the Cooperative.

The Cooperative shall not be required to issue any paper equity interest
certificates unless and until so determined by the Cooperative’s
Directors. If the Cooperative issues paper certificates, the Cooperative
and Council Members shall cause any certificates for Units subject to
this Agreement to be endorsed substantially as follows:

  

## **Notice of Restrictions on Disposition**

This certificate and the Units represented by it are subject to the
provisions of a Council Membership Agreement effective
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 20 (as it may be amended from time to
time) whereby the disposition in any manner of such Unit or any interest
therein is restricted and pursuant to which any person acquiring Units
represented by this Certificate is deemed to have agreed to the terms
and conditions of the Agreement. A copy of the Agreement is on file at
the principal business office of the Cooperative where it may be
inspected.

The Council Member acknowledges that the Class A Unit acquired hereby
does not constitute a security, as defined by the Securities Act of
1933. The Council Member’s interest in the Cooperative and rights
acquired as a result of becoming a member in the Cooperative are not a
security. As such, no aspect of this Agreement or the transaction
contemplated hereby have been reviewed, passed over, or approved by a
federal or state regulatory agency.

  

## **The Council Member is purchasing and holding the Class A Unit for its own account.**

The Council Member understands that the membership interest and the
Class A Unit have not been, and will not be, registered under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) or under any
state’s Blue Sky laws, by reason of specific exemptions from the
registration provisions of the same, which depend upon, among other
things, the bona fide nature of the Council Member’s non-pecuniary
motivation to become a member in the Cooperative.

Council Member expressly acknowledges, understands and appreciates that
the Class A Unit is generally not subject to and is not being acquired
for the purpose of realizing financial appreciation on the stock.
Rather, Council Member is seeking to become a member in the Cooperative
to support and gain access to certain non-pecuniary aspects of the
business of the Cooperative.

Council Member expressly acknowledges, understands and appreciates that
the Cooperative has no intention, and has in fact created certain
disincentives to sell the Cooperative or substantially all of its assets
for the financial gain of its members.

The Council Member has sufficient experience in the business of the
Cooperative, its financial condition and related investment risks
sufficient to enable him/her to be able to evaluate the risks involved
in the transaction contemplated herein and to make an informed decision
with respect to such transaction.

The Council Member can afford a complete loss of the value of the Units
being acquired hereby and is able to bear the economic risk of holding
such Units for an indefinite period.

  

  

  

# Article IV **Miscellaneous Provisions**

  

## **1. Dispute Resolution**

Council Member and Cooperative agree to submit and resolve any dispute
arising out of this Agreement, any other agreements between the Council
Member and the Cooperative, or any agreements made between Council
Members in connection to business directly connected to the
Cooperative’s business, to the Dispute Resolution provision as
outlined in Article X of the Cooperative’s Bylaws.

  

## **2. Forfeiture of Council Membership**

Violation of this Agreement in any material respect by Council Member,
or violation of the terms and conditions of the Bylaws of the
Cooperative, will be grounds for the Board of Directors to terminate
Council Member¹s membership in the Cooperative.

  

## **4. No Assignment, Non-Transferable**

Except as permitted by this Agreement, the Council Member may not assign
its interest or rights in this Agreement. This Agreement will be binding
on the parties and their heirs, successors and assigns. Council Member
acknowledges and agrees that except as provided for in this Agreement,
its membership in the Cooperative and the Class A Unit is not
transferable without the prior written consent of the Board.

  

## **5. Indemnification**

Council Member hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the
Cooperative and its officers, directors, members, employees,
consultants, representatives, and agents from and against any and all
causes of action, charges, claims, damages, demands, liabilities,
losses, obligations, penalties and other recoveries and any and all
related costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs) arising, directly or indirectly, from any
misrepresentation made by Council Member herein, any breach by Council
Member of the representations and warranties made by Council Member
herein, any failure by Council Member to fulfill any of Council Member’s
covenants set forth herein, for any negligent act or omission by the
Council Member at any time arising out of Council Member’s membership in
the Cooperative, or any resale, transfer or other distribution of the
Class M Unit in violation of this Agreement or the Cooperative’s Bylaws.

  

## **6. Governing Law and Venue**

The laws of the State of Colorado will govern this Agreement, and venue
for enforcement of this Agreement will be in Boulder County, Colorado.

  

## **7. Uniformity of Agreement**

It is the intent that all Class A Council Membership Agreements are to
be uniform in all material respects, except that the Class A Common Unit
price is subject to change, in the discretion of the Board of Directors.

  

## **8. Board Powers**

The Cooperative’s Board of Directors or an authorized representative or
delegate of the same shall have all necessary powers and authority to
administer and enforce the terms of this Agreement, to the extent not
inconsistent with the same and to the extent required or reasonably
necessary.

  

  

  

-----

  

This Agreement is executed and delivered by Applicant on the \_\_\_\_
day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2015.

Signature:

Name:

Social Security Number:

Address:

Phone:

Facsimile:

Email:

  

-----

  

**Accepted and effective**

This \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 201\_\_:

**Dojo4 LCA**

By:

Name:

Title:
