  

**MUTUAL NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT**

Each undersigned party (the “Receiving Party”) understands that the
other party (the “Disclosing Party”) has disclosed or may disclose
information relating to the Disclosing Party’s business (including,
without limitation, computer programs, technical drawings, algorithms,
know-how, formulas, processes, ideas, inventions (whether patentable or
not), schematics and other technical, business, financial, customer and
product development plans, forecasts, strategies and information), which
to the extent previously, presently or subsequently disclosed to the
Receiving Party is hereinafter referred to as “Proprietary Information”
of the Disclosing Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing will be
considered “Proprietary Information” of the Disclosing Party unless
either (1) it is or was disclosed in tangible form and is conspicuously
marked “Confidential”, “Proprietary” or the like, (2) it is or was
disclosed in non-tangible form and identified as confidential at the
time of disclosure, or (3) the nature of the information and the manner
of disclosure are such that a reasonable person would understand it to
be confidential.  

In consideration of the parties’ discussions and any access of the
Receiving Party to Proprietary Information of the Disclosing Party, the
Receiving Party hereby agrees as follows:

The Receiving Party agrees (i) to hold the Disclosing Party’s
Proprietary Information in confidence and to take reasonable precautions
to protect such Proprietary Information (including, without limitation,
all precautions the Receiving Party employs with respect to its own
confidential materials), (ii) not to divulge any such Proprietary
Information or any information derived therefrom to any third person,
(iii) not to make any use whatsoever at any time of such Proprietary
Information except to evaluate internally its relationship with the
Disclosing Party, (iv) not to copy or reverse engineer any such
Proprietary Information and (v) not to export or reexport (within the
meaning of U.S. or other export control laws or regulations) any such
Proprietary Information or product thereof. Without granting any right
or license, the Disclosing Party agrees that the foregoing shall not
apply with respect to any information after five years following the
disclosure thereof or any information that the Receiving Party can
document (i) is or becomes (through no improper action or inaction by
the Receiving Party or any affiliate, agent, consultant or employee of
the Receiving Party) generally available to the public, or (ii) was in
its possession or known by it without restriction prior to receipt from
the Disclosing Party, or (iii) was rightfully disclosed to it by a third
party without restriction, or (iv) was independently developed without
use of any Proprietary Information of the Disclosing Party by employees
of the Receiving Party who have had no access to any such Proprietary
Information. The Receiving Party may make disclosures required by law or
court order provided the Receiving Party uses diligent reasonable
efforts to limit disclosure and to obtain confidential treatment or a
protective order and allows the Disclosing Party to participate in the
proceeding. 

Immediately upon a request by the Disclosing Party at any time, the
Receiving Party will turn over to the Disclosing Party all Proprietary
Information of the Disclosing Party and all documents or media
containing any such Proprietary Information and any and all copies or
extracts thereof. The Receiving Party understands that nothing herein
(i) requires the disclosure of any Proprietary Information of the
Disclosing Party or (ii) requires the Disclosing Party to proceed with
any transaction or relationship. 

This Agreement applies only to disclosures made before the first
anniversary of this Agreement. The Receiving Party acknowledges and
agrees that due to the unique nature of the Disclosing Party’s
Proprietary Information, there can be no adequate remedy at law for any
breach of its obligations hereunder, which breach may result in
irreparable harm to the Disclosing Party, and therefore, that upon any
such breach or any threat thereof, the Disclosing Party shall be
entitled to appropriate equitable relief, without the requirement of
posting a bond, in addition to whatever remedies it might have at
law. In the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be
held by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction to be
illegal, invalid or unenforceable, such provisions shall be limited or
eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this Agreement shall
otherwise remain in full force and effect. This Agreement shall be
governed by the laws of the State of Colorado without regard to the
conflicts of law provisions thereof. This Agreement supersedes all prior
discussions and writings and constitutes the entire agreement between
the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. The prevailing
party in any action to enforce this Agreement shall be entitled to costs
and attorneys’ fees. No waiver or modification of this Agreement will be
binding upon a party unless made in writing and signed by a duly
authorized representative of such party and no failure or delay in
enforcing any right will be deemed a waiver.
