The Dojo4 offices have been open to friends and family for co-working
and socializing since the company was founded in 2009. We operationalize
the respect we have for people being able to do their work with focus
and welcome the connection that comes by inviting [our
community](./community.md) into the inner
workings of our business.

*This key hangs on the wall by the front door to our office at 2030 17th
St., Boulder, CO 80304:*

![](https://d2eslrut6bvw18.cloudfront.net/v2/39196/contents/xSErySnL1ZDFBiY3/mw1920_Screen_Shot_2021-07-08_at_4.17.39_PM.png)

  

## **Meetings**

*We also have* [*a
cadence*](https://little-startup-handbook.dojo4.com/find-a-rythm/) *of*
[*meetings*](https://little-startup-handbook.dojo4.com/meetings/) *to
help provide rhythm and reliability to our*
[*communication*](./internal-comms.md)*.*

### **Daily standup**

Daily standups happen every weekday at noon. Everyone at the dojo stands
up, generally in a circle, and gives a quick summary of what they are
working on that day(s). Participants include both employees and
contractors. It’s a chance for everyone to find out what everyone else
is working on and where they may want/need to sync further. If you are
not onsite, please use the Google Hangout (use this address:
<http://standup-meet.dojo4.coop/> to join the meeting.

  

### **Friday standup **        

We've been doing [a unique Friday
standup](https://dojo4.com/blog/a-bow-and-a-clap) at Dojo4 for over a
decade. It's open to whoever happens to be at Dojo4 and is a meaningful
part of what makes Dojo4 what it is. We almost always follow this
standup with a community lunch (see below). This weekly standup happens
promptly every Friday at 12:00pm and rarely takes more than 15-20
minutes. Our weekly standup is meant to allow us to gain a better
understanding of the people we work with and what is important to them.
We spend endless hours and emails relating the practical details of our
work projects to each other, but it is rare that we get a chance to
relate to each other in a genuine and candid way about what may (or may
not) be meaningful to us. Granting a little time to cultivating that
understanding with each other can feel incalculably more valuable to
each other and the health of our business than any other way that we
could spend 15 minutes ‘meeting’. There is also a chance at the end of
the standup to make any general announcement (e.g. taking an upcoming
vacation? or having a baby? this is a good time to let everyone know).

Our weekly standups look something like this:

  - The standup starts with everyone doing a bow and a clap, and ends
    with the reverse (clap then bow).
  - We start with a minute or two of quiet, allowing everyone to slow
    down a little and arrive.
  - A different person brings [a
    question](https://dojo4.com/blog/friday-question) every week, that
    each person then has a chance to answer. 
  - The guidelines for the standup are:
      - speak from the heart
      - listen completely
      - don’t think about or decide what you are going to say while
        someone else is talking
      - say only what needs to be said
      - don’t withhold from saying something that needs to be said
      - it is not necessary to speak
      - don’t talk while someone else is talking
      - each person goes only once
      - anything said during the standup is confidential

There’s a ‘talking piece’ in the middle that each person can pick up and
hold if they are inspired to say something. Who is going to bring the
question the following week is decided at the end of each
standup. Announcements are made by anyone who has one. We end with a
clap and a bow.

  

### **Resource Meeting**

Project leads and business managers meet once a week for 30 min to have
take a pan-project view of the human resources status of each project.
Notes are posted to the co-op member channel. Resource allocation
happens at this meeting. Sales are also discussed.

  

### **Project IPMs (Iteration Planning Meetings)**

Project leads lead a weekly meeting (generally on Tuesdays) for the
project team and client to meet, discuss the status of the project and
plan upcoming iterations. This meeting is generally kept to a maximum of
30 minutes. This is a high level meeting - any details that arise are
scheduled for a separate discussion with specifically relevant people.
Notes are taken in a running Google doc and posted both the the Dojo4
chat channel and to /news on each individual project.

  

## **Food & Drink**

### **Boxcar Coffee**

Dojo4 has a tab at the inimitable and delicious [Boxcar Coffee
Roasters](https://www.boxcarcoffee.com/) at 1825 Pearl St. Get yourself
a coffee on us every day of the week\! Just tell the barista that you
are with Dojo4.

### **Friday lunch**

We almost always order take out from a local downtown restaurant for the
team on Fridays so that we can enjoy a meal together after Friday
standup. Friends and family are invited, but be sure to let the person
ordering lunch know who's coming so that there's enough to go around.

### **Beer & Snacks**

We’re not making any promises, but we find that providing a few cold
ones and something to munch generally makes the office kitchen a popular
destination.
