Parental leave after the birth of a child has been shown to cultivate
significant benefits for the early development and health of a newborn.
Supporting healthy families, and fostering equilibrium between home and
work life, is integral to the success of Dojo4, as a business and a
culture. As such, Dojo4 provides various benefits for parental leave
associated with the birth or adoption of a child by a Dojo4 member.
These benefits extend to co-parents of any gender, sexual orientation or
marital status.

The time-off offered is outlined below, but in each case there may be
differences depending on the nature of your particular job and
circumstances. Inevitably various questions will arise according to your
situation:

  - Will my specific job still be there when I return?
  - How will Dojo4 fill my shoes while I'm gone?
  - What if I want to go to permanent part-time after my baby is born?
  - If i go to unpaid time, is my job still guaranteed? For how long?

Since Dojo4 is a small cooperative, with each member filling a unique
role, the answers to these questions will vary according to each
circumstance. Please talk to us (the members) about what you need and
want in terms of having a new addition to your family. Dojo4 will do its
best in each situation to help support a healthy and sustainable family
/ work balance.

## Parental Leave Guidelines

To qualify for Parental Leave you must be an active Dojo4 member,
considered to be working at Dojo4 full-time. You must be taking the time
off to support or to be fully involved in the child's care.

  

To qualify for Parental Leave, you must be have been a Dojo4 member for
at least 26 weeks by either the 15th week before the week that the baby
is due or the end of the week you are notified you are matched with the
child you are adopting

  

You must also be either the:

\- biological parent of the child

\- parent's partner

\- child's adopter

\- partner of the child's adopter

  

Dojo4 will cover the first two weeks of your leave at 100% of your
salary after the baby is born or adopted. After that, as a Dojo4 member
you are covered by our short-term disability insurance policy which will
cover 60% of your weekly salary up to $1,000 for up to 8 weeks. Dojo4
will cover the remaining 40% for the next 4 consecutive weeks, and 20%
for the next 2 consecutive weeks. Unpaid leave is also an option and can
be discussed with the other members of Dojo4.

  

If you were already pregnant at the time you became a Dojo4 member, you
may not qualify for Dojo4 paid parental leave benefits, however as a
Dojo4 member, short-term disability insurance may be available will
cover 60% of your weekly salary up to $1,000 for up 2 weeks.
