### Non-Discrimination Policy

It is the policy and commitment of Dojo4 that it does not discriminate
on the basis of race, age, color, sex, national origin, physical or
mental ability, sexual orientation or religion.

### Equal Employment Opportunity

Dojo4 is committed to a policy of equal employment opportunity and does
not discriminate in the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment
on account of race, age, color, sex, national origin, physical or mental
ability, sexual orientation or religion or otherwise as may be
prohibited by federal and state law.

Any employee, client or volunteer who believes that she/he/they or any
other affiliate of Dojo4 has been discriminated against is strongly
encouraged to report this concern promptly to the CEO or other Dojo4
co-op member.

### Discriminatory Harassment

Harassment or intimidation of an employee, client or guest, because of
that person’s race, age, color, sex, national origin, physical or mental
disability, sexual orientation or religion is specifically prohibited
and may be grounds for termination. Harassment and intimidation includes
abusive or threatening language or behavior. Dojo4 is committed to
maintaining a workplace that is free of any such harassment and will not
tolerate discrimination against employees, clients, volunteers or
guests. Issues of discriminatory treatment, harassment, or intimidation
on any of these bases should immediately be reported to the CEO and, if
substantiated, prompt action will be taken.

### Grievance Resolution

If as an employee or contractor to Dojo4, you have a grievance, please
follow these guidelines:

\* Whenever possible use an informal process before entering into the
formal process of filing a grievance. Talking face-to-face and from the
heart is the first step.

\* If an informal resolution is not effective, start the formal
grievance procedure by putting your grievance into writing.

\* Present your written grievance to a Dojo4 co-op member.

\* A face-to-face meeting will be arranged within 3 days of the formal
presentation of the written grievance.

\* Either party may arrange for a third-party to be present. Each party
must approve the choice of the third-party.

\* The meeting will be used to establish the facts and have all parties
agree on a resolution.

\* Any resolution will be presented to all parties in writing.

\* All grievances will be treated with absolutely confidential except
between owners of Dojo4, or with legal authorities, should the complaint
address criminal activity.

### Disciplinary Procedure

In the event that a disciplinary issue is recognized with a member or
contractor, the following steps will be taken:

  - The attempt at addressing the issue will be informal and will
    involve direct conversation between an owner(s) of Dojo4 and the
    employee.
  - If the informal conversation is not deemed effective, the a member
    or contractor will receive a written statement from the owners of
    Dojo4, outlining the problem.
  - A face-to-face meeting will be arranged within 3 days of having the
    problem expressed in writing.
  - Either party may arrange for a third-party to be present. Each party
    must approve the choice of the third-party.
  - The meeting will be used to establish the facts and have all parties
    agree on a resolution.
  - Any resolution will be presented to all parties in writing.
  - All disciplinary action will be treated with absolutely confidential
    except between owners of Dojo4, or with legal authorities, should
    the complaint address criminal activity.
  - Whether or not an effective resolution is found, the owners of Dojo4
    reserve the right to terminate employment of any member or
    contractor, at any time, with just cause.

### Collective Bargaining Policy

Dojo4 recognizes and supports the rights of workers, individual and
unionized. The decision by a Dojo4 member or contractor to enter into a
collective bargaining agreement is governed by federal laws. Dojo4 takes
no position on such agreements and neither encourages nor discourages
them, but will recognize and respect such agreements as entered into by
any Dojo4 member or contractor.

### Commitment to Ban Child Labor and Forced/Compulsory Labor

Dojo4 is committed business practices and relationships that restrict
and avoid employment to those age 15 or older, or the local minimum
employment age, or the mandatory school age, whichever is higher. To
this effect we commit to avoid using products, tools and resources, or
fostering business relationships, that make use of child labor or any
forced labor or exploitative working conditions. Dojo4’s policy on Child
Labor and Forced Labor is based on International Labor Organization
(ILO) conventions and national laws, and recognizes regional and
cultural differences.

### Whistleblower Policy

Dojo4 requires directors, members, employees and contractors to observe
high standards of business and personal ethics in the conduct of their
duties and responsibilities. As representatives of the Dojo4, we must
practice honesty and integrity in fulfilling our responsibilities and
comply with all applicable laws and regulations.

**Reporting Responsibility**

This Whistleblower Policy is intended to encourage and enable members
and others to raise serious concerns internally so that Dojo4 can
address and correct inappropriate conduct and actions. It is the
responsibility of all board members, directors, members, employees and
contractors to report concerns about violations of Dojo4’s code of
ethics or suspected violations of law or regulations that govern Dojo4’s
operations.

**No Retaliation**

It is contrary to the values of Dojo4 for anyone to retaliate against
any board members, directors, members, employees or contractors who in
good faith reports an ethics violation, or a suspected violation of law,
such as a complaint of discrimination, or suspected fraud, or suspected
violation of

any regulation governing the operations of Dojo4. A board member,
director, member, employee or contractor who retaliates

against someone who has reported a violation in good faith is subject to
discipline up to and including termination of employment and membership.

**Reporting Procedure**

Dojo4 has an open door policy and suggests that members and contractors
share their questions, concerns, suggestions or complaints with each
other and the CEO. If you are not comfortable speaking with the CEO or
you are not satisfied with the CEO’s response, you are encouraged to
speak with assembled membership of the cooperative and/or the Board of
Directors. The CEO is required to report complaints or concerns about
suspected ethical and legal violations in writing

to the Dojo4’s assembled membership, who have the responsibility to
investigate all reported complaints.
