*Be sure to also see how to* [*estimate a
project*](https://dojo4.bit.ai/docs/LdCacSj8yYadmIiN)*.*

*Based on original by Ara Howard @drawohara:*
[*https://github.com/dojo4/dojo4/edit/master/docs/how-tos/sell-a-project.md*](https://github.com/dojo4/dojo4/edit/master/docs/how-tos/sell-a-project.md)

# **How To Sell A Project**

Sales require time, but be sure that you’re not spending so much time on
the sale as to make the project fee obsolete. General rule of thumb:
almost always, selling a project for $10-15K makes Dojo4 nil.

That said, sales are a necessary evil in our business, so here’s a quick
summary of what it usually looks like, and what you should do.

## Bottom Line: document **everything** in Redmine

There will inevitably be a ton of back and forth with the prospective
client: we need an **exact** record of what was discussed in the sale
process. This information both enables us to create an accurate
contract/Scope of Work (SOW) and also fleshes out the details that will
be consolidated in the SOW for later reference, if need be.

  

## How It Often Unfolds

1.  Client: inquires.
2.  You: respond. The goal here is either to send them politely on their
    way, or to **make sure you understand the problem.**

Most clients come to us with a solution. “Can you build us an X?” The
answer is always yes, but the question you should be asking is, “Does
that actually solve your problem?”

Once you understand the problem, do your research and build an estimate.
See **how to** [**estimate a
project**](https://dojo4.bit.ai/docs/LdCacSj8yYadmIiN).

Here it bears repeating: **document everything in Redmine in**
[**https://projects.dojo4.com/projects/sales**](https://projects.dojo4.com/projects/sales).
Note: /sales is private to dojo4. We can always move it into a public
ticket in their project if we make the sale and want to share the info
therein with them.

The key thing is that the discussion with client is captured **EXACTLY**
as it happens. If you have phone or in person meetings, emails, etc.
capture them in Redmine. You'd be surprised how often clients ask 'why
did you do X' and you can say 'because you asked me to 67 days ago at
4:21, and here is the code that did it’. This is what we loose when we
blow shit out into google docs and other systems.

If invoices are disputed later, it's **key** that every thing is tracked
precisely and linearly. Notice that the Redmine tickets include any
assets the clients gave us, pdfs, psds, etc.

1.  Once the deal has been closed with a handshake, we will use the
    sales ticket in Redmine to create a contract and Scope of Work
    (SOW).
2.  Project isn’t really sold until that’s signed.

### Note: once a project starts…

We link all tickets back to the estimate such that developers have
CONTEXT of the entire chain while working.

So, include 100% of the back and forth to nail down a price and scope of
work (we use the sales ticket to create the SOW), every task that was
done on the estimate with *precise* times, who did it, time tracked, and
urls for each and every damn thing without adding accounts or searching.

Also note that, because Redmine integrates with github, we even can link
to specific commits in Redmine done to make the project.

  

## Be Proactive

Be sure to relate to this as a **proactive**, not reactive, process so
that it best supports the prospective client's **best interest**. That
means looking combing through what they are proposing for what needs or
should be done, that we can excellently do, that the client isn't aware
of. Sales at Dojo4 are normally just exchanging 'we can do' for 'you
need to do' in the context of a running project. For Dojo4 sales this
should should always represent *acting in the client's best interest* to
see *in advance*, what [your personal professional
capacity](https://dojo4.bit.ai/docs/9Kubq1l8gSQuMzjn) allows you to see
- that the prospective (or existing) client does not yet see.

  

## To Summarize

  - understand the problem
  - don’t under-estimate the cost or timeline
  - document **everything** in Redmine in linear order
  - be proactive, imaginative and trustworthy
