*Also see all Dojo4 legal agreements here:*
[*https://github.com/dojo4/policy/*](https://github.com/dojo4/policy/)*.
And in the Dojo4 Concord account at concordnow.com.*

## **Engagement Agreement**

This Engagement Agreement (the “Engagement Agreement”) between
**\_\_\_\_\_** (“Client”) and **Dojo4, LCA** (“Dojo4”) sets forth a
description of the Services referenced in the Services Agreement dated
\<\<MSA date\>\> (the “Services Agreement”) between the parties and by
this reference incorporates herein the terms and conditions set forth in
the Services Agreement. This Engagement Agreement constitutes an
independent, separate and enforceable agreement between the parties. In
the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions set forth in
this Engagement Agreement and those set forth in the Services Agreement,
the terms and conditions set forth herein shall govern. Unless otherwise
defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings
corresponding thereto as set forth in the Services Agreement.

*This is Client’s and Dojo4’s Engagement Agreement. Client agrees to
read it and understand it, and Client won't just sign it. It contains
details about the relationship between Client and Dojo4.*

***All parties enter this agreement with a spirit of friendly
collaboration, an intention to work diligently and move together toward
excellent outcomes.***

  

### **Nature of Engagement**

The Client engages with Dojo4 for the following general
activities/deliverables that include:

Additional activities/deliverables requested by Client will be billed at
the rate of $\>/hour (see "Fees," below).

### **Estimate**

Dojo4 will perform this work within the following limits:

  - The total Fees (as defined below) payable by Client in consideration
    of the Services will not be more than $\> USD total budget.
  - Regardless of accomplishment of Deliverables, Dojo4 will not exert
    more than \> hours of work on this Engagement and will work in good
    faith to accomplish the Deliverables in a minimum amount of time.
  - Dojo4 estimates that the Services can be performed in accordance
    with the following milestones and timelines:
      - a start date no later than \>.
      - a total duration between project start and finish of not more
        than \> calendar weeks.

**OR**

  - Dojo4 estimates that the Services can be performed in accordance
    with the following milestones and timelines:
      - Over a period of \<\<\#\>\> weeks of work.
  - Dojo4 estimates that the total Fees (as defined below) payable by
    Client in consideration of the Services will be:

$\>.

  - The deadline for the project is \>. In the case that Client delays
    the completion of this project past this deadline, Dojo4 reserves
    the right to invoice for and receive prompt payment for work
    completed to-date, and to terminate the project at that point.

**OR**

Dojo4 estimates that the Services can be performed for \_\_\_ hours for
a cost of $\_\_\_ and will work in good faith to accomplish the
Deliverables in a minimum amount of time.

Client acknowledges and understands that the Services will be performed
by Dojo4 on a “time and materials” basis and that the foregoing
estimates are merely an educated guess on the part of Dojo4. Client
acknowledges and understands that it shall be obligated to pay the Fees
that accrue hereunder even if the Fees exceed the estimate set forth
herein or the Services are not performed strictly in accordance with the
estimate for the milestones and timeline set forth herein. Dojo4 makes
no representations or warranties regarding of any kind regarding the
estimates.

  

  

### **Rate And Terms of Payment**

**1. Rate.** In consideration of Dojo4’s performance of the Services,
Client shall pay to Dojo4 professional services fees at the hourly
(prorated for partial hours rounded to the nearest quarter hour) rate
(the “Fees”) of  $XXX per hour per person. Dojo4 will charge to Client
$300 per hour for any time spent following up on unpaid, overdue
invoices.

**2. Payment Terms.** At Dojo4 we use weekly invoices as a quick
turn-around of an accounting of hours. Sending an accounting of hours
every week, and having that kind of visibility and approval, gives us
assurance that we're heading in a direction that our clients feel good
about. As such, Client shall pay to Dojo4 the Fees as follows:

a) The initial deposit of $\> (the “Deposit”) shall be due and payable
upon the execution of this Engagement Agreement to be applied against
the final Fees that accrue during the course of Dojo4’s performance of
the Services. The Deposit will be reflected in the final invoice(s) for
this Engagement, such that no payment will be due to Dojo4 by Client for
the final $\> worth of work. Dojo4 shall deliver to Client an invoice
reflecting the Deposit upon the execution of this Engagement Agreement.

b) On a weekly basis thereafter, Dojo4 shall deliver to Client an
invoice reflecting the aggregate Fees accrued at the applicable rate(s)
specified in Section 1 above during the preceding calendar week. Client
shall pay invoices reflecting Fees accrued at the rate specified in
Section 1 above on "Net 14 Days" terms. Invoices that are not paid
within 14 calendar days will incur a 2.25% finance charge compounding
every 14 day overdue period.

**OR**

**1. Rate.** In consideration of Dojo4’s performance of the Services,
Client shall pay to Dojo4 professional services fees at the hourly
(prorated for partial hours rounded to the nearest quarter hour) rate
(the “Fees”) of $XXX per hour per person. In the case that Client does
not meet the Payment Terms, below, Dojo4 reserves the right to increase
the Fees $225 per hour per person, as per Section 2e, below.

**2. Payment Terms.** At Dojo4 we like to use a pay-forward arrangement
as a valve for having work approved beforehand. We use weekly invoices
as a quick turn-around of an accounting of hours and don't work further
until more funds have been approved. Sending an accounting of hours
every week, and having that kind of visibility and approval, gives us
assurance that we're heading in a direction that our clients feel good
about. As such, Client shall pay to Dojo4 the Fees in advance as
follows:

a) The initial installment for \_\_ hours of $\_\_\_\_ (the “Advance
Amount”) shall be due and payable upon the execution of this Engagement
Agreement to be applied against the Fees that accrue during the course
of Dojo4’s performance of the Services. Dojo4 shall deliver to Client an
invoice reflecting the Advance Amount upon the execution of this
Engagement Agreement.

b) As Dojo4 performs the Services and the Fees in connection therewith
accrue at the rate(s) specified in Section 1 above, Dojo4 shall apply
the Advance Amount in satisfaction of the same. Dojo4 shall deliver to
Client an invoice reflecting a subsequent Advance Amount once the hours
covered by the previously paid Advance Amount accrue to \_\_ hours or
less.

c) On a weekly basis thereafter, Dojo4 shall deliver to Client an
invoice reflecting the Advance Amount less the aggregate Fees then
accrued and applied against the Advance Amount as detailed therein
during the preceding calendar week.

d) Client acknowledges and understands that Dojo4 shall not be obligated
to continue perform the Services in the event the Advance Amount has
been fully applied to the Fees then-accrued and that Dojo4 may cease
performance of the Services until it receives payment of the Advance
Amount in connection with a subsequent invoice.

e) Client acknowledges and understands that Dojo4 reserves the right to
increase the hourly rate to $225 per hour per person in the event the
Advance Amount has been fully applied to the Fees then-accrued and until
it receives payment of the Advance Amount in connection with a
subsequent invoice.

f) In the event that upon the completion of the Services and final
delivery of any work product related thereto the balance of the Advance
Amount exceeds the aggregate Fees accrued in connection with the same,
Dojo4 shall refund to Client such balance within 15 days after Client’s
acceptance of the Services and such work product in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the Services Agreement.

  

Dojo4 will gladly offer estimates for additional specific deliverables
upon request.

In Witness Whereof, the parties have executed this Engagement Letter.
