*Also see all Dojo4 legal agreements here:*
[*https://github.com/dojo4/policy/*](https://github.com/dojo4/policy/)*.
And in the Dojo4 Concord account at concordnow.com.*

  

## Dojo4 Subcontractor Agreement

Following is an agreement
between **Dojo4** and **\*\*\*NAME\*\*\* **(hereinafter referred to
as "SUBCONTRACTOR"), under which SUBCONTRACTOR will provide services to
dojo4. CLIENT references any client of Dojo4, whether in the past,
present or future, as mutually agreed.

**All parties enter this agreement with a spirit of friendly
collaboration, an intention to work diligently and move together toward
excellent outcomes.**

Dojo4

2030 17th St.

Boulder, CO 80302

  

  

SUBCONTRACTOR

  

​​

  

  

### **Background**

  

Dojo4 has engaged SUBCONTRACTOR as an independent SUBCONTRACTOR to
perform such services on behalf of Dojo4 as determined by Dojo4 during
the course of such engagement (the “*Services*”) and Dojo4 and
SUBCONTRACTOR desire to enter into this Agreement to set forth the terms
and conditions applicable to such engagement.

  

**In consideration** of the mutual promises set forth herein and the
acts to be performed by the parties hereto, Dojo4 and SUBCONTRACTOR
agree as follows:

  

### **1. Commencement and Term**

This contract will begin on \*\*DATE\***\* **or as soon as the
SUBCONTRACTOR begins work on contracted work, otherwise known as
commencement of the ‘Term’. This contract is durable through such time
as a new contract is signed this contract is dissolved in writing.

  

### **2. Services**

(a) SUBCONTRACTOR acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement shall be
deemed to supersede and exclusively govern the independent SUBCONTRACTOR
relationship between SUBCONTRACTOR and Dojo4 and that all other verbal
or written agreements between them purporting to govern such
relationship are hereby terminated and of no further force or effect as
of the date hereof. 

(b) SUBCONTRACTOR shall use his, her or its best efforts and skill to
perform the Services during the Term in a timely and professional
workmanlike manner. SUBCONTRACTOR acknowledges and agrees the nature of
the Services, including without limitation, the responsibilities,
specifications, requirements, milestones, deadlines and/or location may
be changed, added to or eliminated at any time as determined by Dojo4.

(c) SUBCONTRACTOR acknowledges and agrees that the performance of his,
her or its obligations as set forth in this Agreement shall not conflict
with or cause SUBCONTRACTOR to be in default or violation of the terms
and conditions set forth in any other agreement between SUBCONTRACTOR
and any other third party, including without limitation, any other
current or former customer or employer.

  

### **3. Work Facilities, Equipment & Supplies**

So long as Contractor satisfies all applicable deadlines, Contractor
shall be permitted to perform the Services from any reasonable location
selected by Contractor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Contractor
acknowledges and agrees that the Company may, from time to time on prior
notice to Contractor, require Contractor to perform the Services at the
offices of the Company or any customer of the Company. Contractor shall
supply or acquire any equipment and supplies Contractor determines are
necessary or desirable in connection with the performance of the
Services.

  

### **4. Scope, Job Description & Procedures**

a) SUBCONTRACTOR has experience and skills in software and web
development or design. Dojo4 is in the business of acquiring and
managing contracts to complete these types of services for its clients.

SUBCONTRACTOR will provide the services required to complete such
assignment(s) (hereinafter referred to as "project") as planned in
discussions between Dojo4, SUBCONTRACTOR and CLIENT.

b) SUBCONTRACTOR will be responsible for projects and tasks assigned by
any of Dojo4 partners and/or the project manager. SUBCONTRACTOR will
report to whomever assigned the task and will use the project manager as
a general point of contact who will oversee the management of his/her
assignments. 

c) SUBCONTRACTOR acknowledges and agrees that he, she or it shall
perform the Services in accordance with the then-current policies and
procedures of Dojo4, as such policies and procedures may be amended or
eliminated from time to time as determined by Dojo4, except to the
extent any such policy or procedure specifically conflicts with the
terms and conditions set forth herein or is in violation of applicable
law. SUBCONTRACTOR further acknowledges and agrees that any such written
or verbal policies and procedures do not constitute contracts between
Dojo4 and SUBCONTRACTOR.

d) SUBCONTRACTOR agrees to adhere to the "Expectations for Contractors,"
as outlined in the Dojo4 Employee / Member Handbook: www.dojo4.com/HR.

  

### **5. Termination of Agreement**

Either party can terminate this agreement with two weeks written notice.
If Dojo4 or SUBCONTRACTOR terminate this agreement, SUBCONTRACTOR will
be compensated based upon the amount of service completed up to the date
of termination. Notwithstanding the forgoing, a percentage of
compensation due SUBCONTRACTOR may be withheld should termination result
in harm to Dojo4 or should Dojo4 incur unusual costs due to the need to
locate, hire and orient replacement support in order to complete the
project.

  

### **6. Compensation, Hours and Payment Schedule**

a) The SUBCONTRACTOR will be paid $xxx/hour. Another rate can be
negotiated and agreed upon, in writing, per project. Dojo4 will
remunerate the SUBCONTRACTOR within 30 days for work performed, unless
otherwise specified, but will always try to remunerate the SUBCONTRACTOR
more often on the 15th and 30th of each month. SUBCONTRACTOR shall be
paid for actual hours worked, and shall not be compensated for time not
spent on the project due to illness, vacation, or any other reason.
Dojo4 encourages all subcontractors to track their hours using Dojo4’s
projects in Redmine. SUBCONTRACTOR will be paid at least once per month
and more often when possible.

b) This payment arrangement may be renegotiated at anytime by either the
SUBCONTRACTOR or Dojo4.

c) Dojo4 reserves to the right to charge clients a rate higher than that
paid out to the SUBCONTRACTOR. It can be understood that this difference
in rate is used to cover Dojo4 infrastructure expenses, the project
management budget, and other Dojo4 costs.

The SUBCONTRACTOR is the master of his/her own time and can take time
off or away as he sees fit, as long as the work is getting done.
Efficiency and adherence to timetables are necessary for the continued
good health of Dojo4 / SUBCONTRACTOR relationship.

  

### **7. Status**

SUBCONTRACTOR is acting under this agreement as an independent
SUBCONTRACTOR and not as an employee and is not entitled to or expecting
any other benefit, monetary or otherwise, from Dojo4 or from Dojo4
client firms, in consideration of the work to be completed for CLIENT,
other than the payment of fees as described in section 5, above.

SUBCONTRACTOR acknowledges that he/she is providing services to Dojo4
and CLIENT as an independent SUBCONTRACTOR and not as an employee, and
understands that Dojo4 shall not pay for, or in any way provide
SUBCONTRACTOR with insurance, whether liability or otherwise, including
but not limited to unemployment insurance, workers' compensation, social
security, medical, hospitalization, disability, and life insurance.

Since SUBCONTRACTOR is an independent SUBCONTRACTOR, Dojo4 will make no
deductions from fees paid to SUBCONTRACTOR for any federal or state
taxes or FICA. SUBCONTRACTOR understands and agrees that he/she is
entitled to no benefits to which he/she might have been entitled had
SUBCONTRACTOR been an employee of CLIENT or Dojo4.

  

### **8. Expenses**

The SUBCONTRACTOR is responsible for keeping track of any additional
expenses accrued to be reimbursed by Dojo4. Reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses, agreed to in advance by Dojo4, will be reimbursed to
SUBCONTRACTOR within 15 days of receipt of invoice. SUBCONTRACTOR will
submit expense reports and invoices to Dojo4 within 15 days of incurring
any expenses.

  

### **9. Confidentiality, Disclosure & Rights**

SUBCONTRACTOR shall not disclose CLIENT or Dojo4 proprietary information
and the contents or nature of the project outside of Dojo4 and CLIENT
personnel and/or SUBCONTRACTORs on the project team. SUBCONTRACTOR will
initial and agree to all non-disclosure agreements binding Dojo4 and
CLIENT. SUBCONTRACTOR shall not copy material unless explicitly
authorized to do so, and shall return all materials to Dojo4 or CLIENT
upon completion of the project.

SUBCONTRACTOR shall promptly disclose to Dojo4 all materials created by
SUBCONTRACTOR which is a work product of the services to be rendered
hereunder, and all such materials developed under this agreement shall
be deemed to be work made for hire belonging exclusively to Dojo4 and
CLIENT, with Dojo4 and CLIENT having the right to obtain and hold in
their own names all copyrights, registrations, or such other protection
as may be appropriate to the subject matter, and any extensions or
renewals thereof.

  

### **10. Intellectual Property; Work for Hire**

(a) SUBCONTRACTOR acknowledges and agrees that only work product he, she
or it conceives, creates, develops or reduces to practice, in whole or
part, during the Term in connection with performing the Services,
including without limitation, all “works of original authorship” and all
source code, software applications, content, inventions, improvements,
enhancements, designs, ideas, formula, processes, techniques,
discoveries or know-how, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, are
“works for hire” (collectively, the “*Company Intellectual Property*”)
is and/or shall become and remain the sole and exclusive property of
Dojo4, and Dojo4 shall be the sole owner of all patents, copyrights and
other rights in connection therewith throughout the world (collectively,
the “*Company Proprietary Rights*”). 

b) SUBCONTRACTOR shall assign all of his, her or its rights, title and
interest in and to any and all Company Intellectual Property and Company
Proprietary Rights, whether or not patentable or registrable under
copyright or similar statutes. In addition, SUBCONTRACTOR hereby waives
and forever discharges any moral rights and claims for infringement,
misappropriation, breach of contract or other cause of action it may
have against Dojo4 arising from Dojo4’s use of all Company Intellectual
Property and Company Proprietary Rights.

c) Upon Dojo4’s reasonable request and expense, SUBCONTRACTOR shall
assist Dojo4 in obtaining and enforcing Company Proprietary Rights.
SUBCONTRACTOR shall execute and deliver such documents and take such
additional actions as Dojo4may reasonably request and at its expense in
connection with Dojo4’s efforts to obtain, perfect, maintain and enforce
such Company Proprietary Rights and the assignment thereof.
SUBCONTRACTOR’s obligation to assist Dojo4 with respect to Company
Proprietary Rights shall survive the termination of this Agreement,
provided that Dojo4 shall reimburse SUBCONTRACTOR for any direct
out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred in connection with rendering
such assistance. In the event Dojo4 is unable for any reason to obtain
SUBCONTRACTOR’s signature on any document or instrument needed in
connection with the any of the foregoing within seven (7) days after
Dojo4’s request for the same, SUBCONTRACTOR hereby irrevocably
designates and appoints Dojo4 and its duly authorized officers and
agents as his or her agent and attorney in fact, to execute, verify and
file any such documents and to take such additional actions in the name,
and on behalf of, SUBCONTRACTOR with the same legal force and effect as
if executed by SUBCONTRACTOR.

  

### **11. Non-Competition**

SUBCONTRACTOR agrees that during the period of this agreement and for a
period of one year after SUBCONTRACTOR completes his/her final
authorized work under Dojo4's contractual agreement with CLIENT,
SUBCONTRACTOR will not prospect for business with CLIENT personnel, will
not solicit business from CLIENT, nor accept business or employment from
CLIENT, except in an SUBCONTRACTOR capacity with Dojo4 and/or under
separate agreement(s) to be mutually agreed upon. Should SUBCONTRACTOR
be offered and accept employment with CLIENT under an express written
agreement with Dojo4, Dojo4 will be with CLIENT to be compensated under
standard and fair rules and practices prevailing in the industry and
marketplace. Dojo4 acknowledges and agrees, however, that nothing in
this agreement shall affect the SUBCONTRACTOR's ability to prospect for
business, enter into contract, or seek employment with any individual or
organization, in any industry, exclusive of CLIENT.

###   

### **12. Subcontracting**

This agreement designates SUBCONTRACTOR to be solely responsible for
providing all services and materials for this project to Dojo4 and/or
CLIENT. SUBCONTRACTOR may not subcontract any part of the work under
this agreement without express consent from Dojo4.

  

### **13. Conflict Resolution**

This agreement will be governed under the laws of the State of Colorado.
Any disputes as to the terms of this agreement shall be resolved under
the laws of the State of Colorado. Conflicts will be submitted for
binding arbitration in Boulder County under American Arbitration
Association supervision and rules.

  

### **General**

Any changes to this agreement will only be valid if they are in writing
and have been agreed and signed by both parties.
